So, you're going to create a wormhole on
demand.
>> You should be able to. That's what my
research showed.
>> So, walk me through how do I get to
Alpha Century by engineering a
traversible wormhole?
>> Well, you're going to create Eric Davis.
You are kind of synonymous with UFO
science. You have an amazing background
at Aerospace Corporation, Earth Tech,
worked with NASA Lewis. Eric Weinstein,
you are a math PhD from Harvard who is
dared to uh present a theory of
everything in physics.
>> The alleged Roswell crash was real.
There was a there there really happened.
>> How is it possible that something this
large that involves this many people has
zero incontrovertible pieces of
evidence?
>> Do you dispute the existence of atomic
weapons because you can't access it?
>> I can access it.
>> Oh, you can access it?
>> I have no idea what we just did. It is a
crash retrieval. Nonhuman intelligence,
nonhuman technology.
>> How many of those crash retrieval
program people have you met?
>> I think it's five total. There's no
physics in it. They're just
>> It doesn't make any sense.
>> Say again.
>> It defies the laws of physics. We
haven't made progress. We have no
physicists. How are they doing on this
project decades in?
>> This thing is not a Manhattan project.
And you know what the Manhattan project
was?
>> Not one of these proposals excites me.
They're boring as sin.
I don't like GR. Why are you not
tweaking it?
>> I'm don't have intuition on how I could
twe tweak it.
>> Are there propulsion modalities that
you're high conviction in that transcend
chemical combustion?
>> Yeah, it goes way beyond even advanced.
>> Are you aware of reports that we are
being
>> made to know that we do not control our
space?
>> Yes. When you see smoke at this level,
the question is what is the nature of
the fire? There are different fires
>> or there's a smoke machine
>> or there's a smoke.
>> Right. Right. Epste was running many
different programs. It wasn't even
Epstein probably running.
>> Look, I believe we can leave. And if you
believe you can leave, you have to
imagine that you're being visited.
>> Ignition sequence.
>> Now, is this possible?
>> Nothing too unusual about that. Their
existence cannot longer be denied.
Before we continue, I want to take a
second to thank one of my favorite
products in the world, Ketone IQ, for
sponsoring today's episode. Ketone IQ is
one of the very few things I use that
gives me clean, sustainable energy
without the crash. It's just this little
shot and I take a drink and I feel like
I'm on fire. No ups, no downs, no
nervous system weirdness, just clean,
clear mental energy. The reason it works
is pretty simple. It gives your brains
ketones, which are almost by definition
its most efficient fuel source. Instead
of pushing your system, it actually
feeds it. In fact, your body
indogenously produces ketones. So, when
you drink this, it supports deep focus,
long conversations, and sustained mental
performance. It was originally developed
through a multi-million dollar military
program designed for high stress
environments where cognitive performance
really matters. And today, it's used by
founders, researchers, podcasters like
myself, and people who need their mind
to work when it counts. I always take a
sip of one of these things before long
podcasts. This product is also really
personal for me because I've known the
founders Jeff and Michael for over a
decade. These guys are awesome and for
as long as I've known them, they've
tried every supplement, biohack, and
neutropic under the sun. So, it was a
pretty good signal to me that they
decided to start a company around
ketones. I use Ketone IQ regularly. It's
like a mental cheat code, and it's
genuinely one of the cleanest energy
sources I've ever found. So, before we
get back into the episode, please visit
ketone.com/alchemy
for 30% off your subscription order,
plus receive a free gift with your
second shipment. Again, that's
ketone.com/alchemy
for 30% off your order. Or you can find
Ketone IQ at Target stores nationwide
and get your first shot free. Seriously,
this stuff works. Thanks so much to
Ketone IQ for sponsoring today's
episode. As you know, we have a new
starship. Of course, we have a healthc
care center on board. Ask what my new
favorite product in it is. I restores
aluminina face mask.
Some billionaires are rejuvenating in
underground light pods. I'm doing my own
version in my living room. This mask is
like a medbed for your face. It's
lightweight, super convenient, cordless,
and runs red, blue, and infrared light
therapy all at once. The same type of
technology NASA studied for skin healing
in space. It's safe for your eyes, too,
so you don't have to sit there like a
statue. You can live your life. I wear
it when I'm reading, meal prepping, or
investigating life's mysteries without
feeling like I'm staring into the sun.
10 minutes of light and my skin looks
and feels so good. Finding red light
therapy was a revelation for me. I've
definitely had a few late nights reading
about magnetic pole shifts, but with
this mask, I look like I actually slept.
Did I? That's debatable. It's warm,
wireless, convenient, and makes your
skin feel super soft. And I Restore is
kicking off their spring savings with
some very big discounts. Right now, you
can get the Elite Plus aluminum face
mask bundle at an exclusive deal when
you use code Jesse restore.com.
That's jesse j ssetore.com.
Please support our show and tell them we
sent you. Dr. Eric Weinstein, Dr. Eric
Davis, this is an absolute honor. I
can't believe this is finally happening.
Um, I think often in this space in when
we're talking about UFOs, UFO legacy,
reverse engineering programs, you have
uh like a wave function that never sort
of collapses and you have, you know,
different sides saying things that are
mutually exclusive and truth it never
collapses into true or false. And uh I'm
really excited to do this because uh
Eric Weinstein, you probably need no
introduction when it comes to kind of a
a general audience. You are uh a math
PhD from Harvard, uh premier cultural
commentator of our generation, uh who
has dared to uh present a theory of
everything in physics. Uh and then Eric
Davis, you definitely need no
introduction in in UFO space. Uh but to
maybe a more general audience, you know,
some of whom who might have seen you in
this recent Age of Disclosure movie, uh
you are kind of synonymous with UFO
science. You have an amazing background
um at aerospace corporation, uh Earth
Tech, uh you've worked with NASA Lewis,
uh you've worked on on various
initiatives in uh exotic propulsion,
directed energy, and so very excited to
have you both today. I want to make this
kind of two parts. one part is kind of
establishing ground truth on uh Eric
Davis's uh claims because he's invest
he's formally investigated this UFO
legacy reverse engineering program. So I
want to figure out what those claims are
for the audience. And then part two and
this is why we have you here Dr.
Weinstein is I want to figure out and
this is kind of actually a followup on
this thing we did with Hal Putoff last
time.
If there is a theoretical physics
component to this UFO legacy reverse
engineering program, is there physics
hiding in private aerospace
corporations? Physics you can think of
as the rules of reality itself that
would be problematic to say the least if
that were the case. And so I'm very
excited to to speak to you both.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Awesome. So um Eric Davis, I I want to
start with you. um when did you become
aware of this UFO legacy reverse
engineering program and and and how did
you become aware of it and and how are
you so high confidence in it? Um I was
working at NIDS uh it'd be 30 years this
July and I was the director of aerospace
physics and astrophysics uh research at
NIDS that's national institute for
discovery science that Bob Bigalow
founded in 1995 and um uh I was hired in
July of 96 along with Colum Keller and
George Onette and uh John Alexander was
already there on the staff also served
as a member of the science advisory
board. So I worked for Air Force
Research Lab after NIDS and before
Halputoff hired me atte Okay. So then uh
during my work at AFRL and then during
my 15 years working with Halputoff we
got involved with the OAP/ATIP
and then later on the SE the separate
attempt called ATIP and then the UAP
task force that Jay Stratton led and uh
using my security clearances my need to
know my access including my letter that
I'm deputized by Jim Lowsky as a
representative of the of the Defense
Intelligence Agency. I used all that
leverage and authority to get into the
crash retrieval program. I couldn't get
access to CCraft bodies or talk to the
people, but I was able to get in to the
people who handled all of that at a
programmatic level and got confirmation
that all of that was real, that all of
it happened.
>> And and what's your conviction level in
say Roswell for example? Like that being
a real crash involving non-human
biologics?
>> It's 100%.
>> 100%.
>> It's 100%. And it wasn't in Roswell, New
Mexico. was on the Foster Ranch in
Corona, New Mexico, which is 30 mi from
Roswell.
>> This landed at a ranch at Corona, New
Mexico, and the rancher turned it over
to the Air Force. Army officers say the
missile found sometime last week has
been inspected at Roswell, New Mexico,
and sent to right field, Ohio for
further inspection. I had my uh
information I got from Ed Mitchell at a
science advisory board meeting about the
Greer briefings on the disclosure
project at at the Pentagon and then
Admiral Wilson coming back and verifying
that the Roswell crash well the Corona
crash actually really did happen. It
wasn't a mogul balloon. It wasn't a raw
wind radar uh test balloon project. It
wasn't a weather balloon. It wasn't
anything of that nature. It was a real
craft of unknown origin that was um
adjudicated to be not of human origin or
constru construct and um it crashed on
that on the Foster Ranch in Cronin,
Mexico. And then there's my work with
Dave Drush when I was at the aerospace
corporation. He was at the aerospace
corporation building in Colorado Springs
because he worked for their government
customer which occupied one or two
floors there.
>> What was David Gush doing in that
capacity? uh he was I think a security
contractor or advisor to a a program
manager. Dave was the NRO liaison
officer to the UAP task force. So he uh
took direction from J Stratton.
>> Wasn't he a national geospatial agency?
>> No, I said the NRO, the National
Reconnaissance.
>> Yeah, you said that but I thought he was
National Geospace.
>> No, that was later.
>> That was later. That was later. Okay. So
he's the NRO li. So during the UAPF, he
was the liaison officer on behalf of the
NRO to the task force.
>> Yep. Got it.
>> So he worked with Travis Taylor, Jay
Stratton, um uh there's some other folks
that don't want to be named. I know. So
I just know that there's a core group of
four there's a core core group of 40
people but there was a peripheral body
of a thousand people that contributed uh
sometime some of their time and labor
and resources and the other government
agencies DoD agencies intelligence
agencies to feed information to the task
force.
>> A lot of people ask about kind of
circular reporting when it comes to UFO
you know testimonies. David Grush is
what a lot of people I think are hinged
hinging their belief on because he's
just seems like a very kind of honest
above board guy who stumbled into a lot
of this stuff. Um, how many of his
witnesses, his 40 witnesses are more of
kind of the hapless engineer type that
just worked on the vehicles versus
people who have, you know, kind of
secondhand or, you know, third hand.
>> No, they're all firsthand. It's just
that uh it's something that Eric and I
had lots of hours and hours of
conversations about two years ago. Not a
single of them were were a physicist.
>> Not a single one of these guys were
physicists. They had some discipline in
engineering in their in their ex in
their profession. They were either
electrical engineers, material
scientists, uh aerospace engineers,
aeromechanical, aerothermal, thermal
control, fluid mechanics.
>> Yeah.
>> Save save that.
>> There wasn't a real physicist there.
Nobody at the PhD level who is either an
applied physicist or an or a theoretical
physicist.
>> Save that thought please because that is
going to basically be the entire kind of
premise for the second part of this. Do
you have any questions as I'm sort of,
you know,
>> well, you know,
look, one of the things that I dislike
very strongly about the UAP world is
that you spend an inordinate amount of
time if you're just trying to be an
honest analytic person with the is there
any actual tangible incontrovertible
proof? And it always seems like there's
somehow this tight-knit group of people
who in general themselves don't have
direct proof, but sort of have proof one
thing away. And
people build entire
theories about, you know, the names of
crafts and who was where and and I just
have no idea as a civilian uh and a
technical civilian um how to think about
this because I don't want to spend our
time in the is it real or not
mode because that basically wastes time
and it's also how con conspirators get
people not to work on conspiracy
theories that could work is that you
demonize and stigmatize the behavior.
So, I usually would prefer in this this
situation to just decamp and assume the
nature of all of these things, but just
to be honest and and it just needs to be
said once.
>> I've been looking at this now, I don't
know, 5 years since Jesse first crammed
it down my throat, and I would say
>> uh I was clearly wrong about it. It's an
enormous area. There's so many people
who claim to have had contact with this
program in one form or another. I I
can't believe that anyone could train an
acting troop at Brando levels of
sincerity uh to lie to me like that. On
the other hand, I've never seen anything
like it where I can't get a single shred
of incontrovertible proof and so many
people seem to have it, but they all
seem to be under some kind of an NDA
where they can't give something real. So
the just the first frustrating question
is how is it possible that something
this large that involves this many
people has zero scientifically
incontrovertible pieces of evidence so
that we can actually
there's no way to predicate a discussion
in a way that I know that's that's
responsible. It just completely eludes
the scientific community.
>> Yeah. It's because the incontrovertible
evidence is kept in the classified realm
for for security reasons. Well, but
again, I don't want to I don't want to
>> Do you Do you dispute the existence of
atomic weapons because you can't access
it?
>> I can access it.
>> Oh, you can access it? Yes. If I look at
if I look at the
>> plutonium core?
>> No, I never kept the demon core in my
basement.
>> Oh, how about the uh how about the
>> But I appreciate the
>> lithium 6 fuel and the primary new.
>> Oh, we used to do that in high school.
>> Oh,
>> no. No. What I'm saying is is that the
Teleron design is released as a highly
redacted report, right? And so I have an
idea from plenty of sources that this
program exists. And what's more, in the
case of of of atomic weapons,
physicists are not perfectly locked
down. It's a high trust community and in
general people are willing to talk uh
you know even if they shouldn't about
the role of physics and atomic weapons.
I have never heard a colleague not once
at a high level in physics give any
credence to this world. In other words,
>> well that's because they didn't have
access. They didn't have need to know.
They didn't have a contract where they
had to have access
>> which again it's not it's not a
challenge in that sense assume that
there is a dividing line but it means
that
in the Manhattan project right we we
called in Fineman
and Boore and Fairmy and Vonman and put
them under Robert Oppenheimer and and
Teller and all these cats and okay
>> Bethy and
>> and Beta right
>> so but in so doing. I would say, okay, I
would imagine that if this is an
existential threat that there's stuff
from someplace we can't understand that
moves and and breaks the laws of physics
and all this, we would call that in.
Now, one of the great things that came
out of our our discussions before is you
said this thing which I repeated on
Rogan because I didn't think it was
classified. You said when it comes to
being technical just at this point, but
that they don't invite in physics. You
said uh you you said that uh Eric you,
me and Halputoff are the three most
technical people on this and I said I'm
not on this.
>> Yeah, that's that's the problem. You
should be in it.
>> Okay, but but that makes you Oenheimer
and Vonoyman and Fineman and Beta and
Fermy is Howal or something like that.
In other words, or or the reverse. But
are are you and how our Manhattan
project?
>> No, we're not directly involved. We've
been exposed to it officially for the
purpose of the OAPs goals.
>> What is the question that I wish to ask?
Do you can you figure
>> Well, I think I think what Eric's trying
to ask and then I do want to actually
continue along the former lines of just
asking about kind of core evidence with
with Dr. Davis. But I think the question
that Eric is trying to ask is you just
mentioned that none of Grush's, you
know, 40 witnesses that he, you know,
handed over to the, uh, intelligence
community inspector general, uh, are
theoretical physicists, right?
>> And so you have, you know, your physics
PhD, how's an electrical engineer, and
>> well, he's also, well, his, uh, PhD was
in laser physics because when you go to
Stanford in the 1960s, you can't get a
PhD in physics or a master's. So, so
it's you two and then Eric who is a a
you know math PhD at the highest level
who can keep up with you know any
physicist in the country and has his own
physics theory of everything I know.
>> And so it's so it's all all three of you
guys but all three of you are outsiders.
He's a real outsider. You two have
officially investigated this stuff and
you're saying there are no theoretical
physicists on the core program.
>> I have never seen one. I've never gotten
evidence from the people from the
leadership at at the aeros two aerospace
companies I personally interviewed with.
So I don't mean interviewed with but who
I investigated and interviewed
leadership and a few of the worker bees
involved.
>> Are there propulsion modalities that
your high conviction and that transcend
chemical combustion?
Yeah, it goes way beyond even advanced
nuclear and uh nuclear in aerospace
industry is fision fusion and matter
antimatter annihilation way beyond that.
Um I don't think we have a grasp of it.
I haven't heard anybody that I've
interviewed uh say that they have a
grasp of it. And even as recently uh
unfortunately
um the one technical person who ended up
becoming a senior VP decades later uh at
the biggest of the aeros legacy
aerospace companies uh he was a material
scientist working on the crash retrieval
program after after getting his doctor
after earning his doctorate and he got
hired straight away to work on it for
about uh roughly two decades.
>> Who is this?
>> Who is that?
>> I'm not worried. So um uh so basically
he's a material scientist. We've had a
lot of classified and unclassified
discussions and I brought these
questions up. I asked his questions.
Yeah. And the and the answer is no. You
we we didn't have theoretical physicist
that we could put on this. We're
strictly limited
>> in the number of people on the bigot
list. The bigot list is the list of
people who have need to know and access
to a particular classified program. And
if you're not on that list, you don't
get admitted. you'll get invited.
>> This is an unagnowledged waved and
bigoted self uh special uncknled it's a
waved unagnowledged special access
program, right? And so, uh I said, "So,
where are your physicists? What are your
theor theoretical and applied physicists
telling you?" He said, "Well, we don't
have any. We never did. We only were
allowed to keep it down to roughly a
handful of people in the company to work
on this and that's it." And it's limited
to engineering. There's no physics in
it. There
>> doesn't make any sense.
>> Say again.
I'm just I'm just trying to logically
think about this. Okay. And you know,
it's it's like saying we're having
trouble performing, uh, Beethoven's
fifth, and we have the finest
accountants, optometrists, boxers, uh,
and cardio trainers. And you're like,
well, what about violinists and violists
and anybody playing the French horn? And
it's like, oh, well, we don't we don't
do that.
>> So, of course, you're not going to play
Beethoven's fifth. I mean, because you
can't engineer your way out of a science
problem.
>> Yeah. Well, let me tell you, I think
you've got a great point about talking
about Manhattan, the Manhattan Project.
This this thing is not a Manhattan
project. And you know what the Manhattan
Project was? We both do. We read the
books. Um, it was multi how many people?
Thousands of people. Multi-disiplinary.
>> The white badges was the very small
core, but the the whole thing was
enormous.
>> Yeah. You had industrial engineers, um,
computational engineers, electrical
engineers, mechanical engineers,
explosives experts, nuclear ex nuclear
physicist and nuclear engineers. You had
everybody of of all the STEM disciplines
there. You had to have mathematicians
>> and uh they were involved with that
program to build up the the fuel design,
characterization, and manufacturer. But
this program does it. These programs
don't have that. They deliberately keep
it divided up among different companies
to maintain plausible deniability in
case there's a leak and they keep it
very small for the reason
>> but it has to be centralized somewhere.
The compartmentalized nature of Los
Alamos and uh the Manhattan Project more
broadly
um was still overseen by a small group
who had universal access.
>> That's right. And also note that the
Manhattan Project people had their
families living with them too in a
closed city.
>> That's right.
>> That's right. So they don't have an
equivalent for this in the crash
retrieval program. Um so there's dis
disjointed groups of people, small
numbers of people. They're not allowed
to know about the other people
and what they're doing.
>> Those are the people who are in the
stovepiped architecture,
>> right? And the central u
>> the central portfolio owner is a
three-letter intelligence agency. So
that's who's is centrally in charge. It
was Lesie Grove in the United States.
Was it the Was Lesie the uh general of
the uh Army Corps of Engineers or was he
in a different
>> I don't remember where he was.
>> Okay. But he was in charge on behalf of
the army. He ran it. He was the military
boss and Oppenheimer was the civilian
boss of the Manhattan project.
>> Do do you take uh David Grush at face
value that Dick Cheney was the last head
honcho of this sort of program
>> and there's not really a mob boss. The
closest person we got that uh I was
aware of was unfortunately now deceased
Vice President Dick Cheney. Uh Darth
Vader himself. Not shocking that he was
involved in this. And essentially when
he left in 2009, that was the last time
that these activities really had central
leadership.
>> I never heard that before. So that never
came up in our in our classified and
unclassified conversations. I'm not
aware that Dick Cheney had any role
>> to speak to this threeletter. the the
the head the head you cited a
three-letter in our discussion at soul
in San Francisco you directly said CIA
DS&T at one time Glenn Gaffne etc. So
was the UFO program portfolio owner so
to Dr. Weinstein's question about
technical rigor physicists. Did you ever
have the opportunity to to ask anybody
near the head of this apparatus? Why
there wasn't a stronger motivation to
have physicists on staff? I mean, from
an early era, why was there not that
prioritization?
>> Well, I would love to talk to the head
of the crash retrieval program during
that era, but he refused to talk to us.
>> And that was that was Glen Gaffne.
>> Yeah. Glen Glen Gaffne. And who is Jim
Ryder?
OSAP was originally intended to skip out
Bigalow Aerospace facilities in Las
Vegas due to a UAP material divestment
plan proposal to OAP leadership by
Loheed Martin space systems vice
president Dr. James Ryder now deceased.
>> He's this Loheed Martin space systems
guy. He was the um uh senior vice
president of the Loheed Martin space and
missiles company which is also the um
space systems company and his dual hat
job was director of the company's
advanced technology center.
>> Did he also work on UFO crash retrieval
initiatives?
>> Well, I don't want to say that um or
confirm or deny that because of the
consequence to his family. One of his
one of his daughters works there. Okay,
got it.
>> It could cause her issues. So,
>> okay.
>> So, I can't get into that particular
detail.
>> Okay. Yeah. No, no, no problem. Through
your I'm so sorry. Through your
investigations, like did you ever
encounter technical intelligence that
you considered high credibility that
seemed like it would have had to have
come from direct communication with NHI
or did it all seem like it could have
been through passive investigation?
>> I couldn't get to that. There's two
things I couldn't get into because I
didn't have access. I didn't have the
right clearances and I wasn't allowed to
let's let's put it this way. There are
people I was working with who knew who
to contact but they wouldn't give me the
contact because they were not allowed to
give out the name and organizational
office or program uh that the individual
worked at. And so they were not allowed
to share that with me. So I couldn't get
into the NHI issue. I couldn't get into
the alien or NHI contact issue. The fact
that Ryder uh
essentially said, "We have no idea how
this works." Does that imply to you they
never had direct they never had the
ability to ask questions of someone with
full knowledge of the technology? Did
did you ever make that connection?
>> No, I think Dave Brush was able to make
that connection. I couldn't. when when
you're on age of disclosure and you are
saying sort of confidently that Roswell
had you know a certain number of beings
one of the beings probably survived is
that I don't know you know I okay
>> that's that's a point of information I
have never gotten in any of my official
government interviews uh or even
unofficial off thereord interviews um is
that any of these aliens ever lived uh
this is coming from a different avenue
and um I don't recall Dave Brush telling
me that that was the case, but I I won't
dismiss it offhand. It's just that it
it's not a piece of data that ever came
my way after 30 years.
>> As part of your official investigations
in OAP,
>> you were making sure that your sources
were completely uncorrelated, right?
They weren't speaking to each other.
>> Oh, yeah. they wouldn't be able to
because they were in compartmentalized
programs and we had uh compartmentalized
clearances ourselves. So we could only
talk to them at a certain level and even
uh we could not get special access
program clearanced because the VP of
Loheed Martin uh there was a VP of TRW
before it got bought out by Northrup
Breming. um these guys uh they may know
about each other but they're not read in
on each other's programs because that's
what compartmentalization meant. It
meant that uh they may know about each
other through the through the portfolio
owner but they're not allowed to
communicate because of that
compartmentalization.
And um uh so where was I going? I think
I lost my train of thought. I'm sorry.
>> Well, tell tell me about George HW Bush
Bush 41.
>> That's separate. That's separate.
>> Yeah. To totally separate. But um yeah,
just wanted to ask you about your
interactions with him because it seemed
like from your accounting he wasn't
fully aware of the UFO crash retrieval
program, but he became aware of it
through some interesting
>> Well, he became uh Gerald Ford's CIA
director.
>> Mhm.
>> So Gerald Ford became president. He
nominated Bush and Bush got confirmed
and he became the CIA director. So he
goes into this for his first briefing as
director of the CIA. The first thing
that came out of this briefer's mouth
was the Hollowman landing in April 1964
at Hollowman uh Air Force Base in New
Mexico. So he started briefing Bush on
that and Bush said, "What are you
talking about? I've never heard of this
before."
>> Describe what this is for the audience.
>> So uh so to make a long story short,
three craft, UAP craft, UFO craft came
in. One of them landed not on the runway
but on the tarmac close to a u a hanger.
The other two took off and uh a gang way
cames down, extended down and down comes
a humanoid looking very tall uh NHI
being uh he looked of Northern European
descent. So he goes and meets with them
and they go into that hanger and that
hanger turns out to be the equivalent
back in those days of a special access
program hanger. It's all secured.
They've got guards around it. That's the
end of the story. So this film was made
of it and this story has circulated at
various times. Uh uh the defense
audiovisisual agency under the command
of two uh retired generals uh I think
Jerry Miller was the name of one of
them. I don't remember the name of the
other. Jacqu Vali talks about them in
his book Revelations I think it is. And
uh he and Alan Heinik were invited to go
to the DAVA and see that film, get
access to the film and see it. So, they
got there and apparently they were not
allowed to see that video because the
one of those two generals said that they
got intercepted or um uh somebody got in
the middle of that and and convinced
them not to allow Ble and Heinik to see
that film. You do have this fact pattern
over decades of you know this sort of
luring in of various you know UFO
researchers and presentation of passage
material which is you know um material
that might have some truth in it but
it's also sprinkled with falsities so
that you know the the researchers can be
discredited. So why now is there this
line in the sand where we should trust
that there is this real UFO legacy crash
retrieval program going on? You know,
I'm kind of thinking maybe it all began
with uh Keller Hernappen Latsky's first
book uh Skinwalkers at the Pentagon. I
think that started it off
>> and then uh Latsky did his first book
and then now second book last year and I
think he's got a third one coming out
and then Lou Alzando's book came out and
so I think this is a crescendo of things
that have come together in uh the right
time, the right place, the right people
and that's why this is happening. And if
you're Stratton and you you're hosting
because he was the guy who ran the UAPF,
the UAP task force and so
>> but he also was working uh with Jim Licy
on the OSAP. He was at DIA at the time.
>> I don't know if you knew that.
>> I didn't know that.
>> He and Lassky are the ones that built
the OSAP program together. So it wasn't
just Jim Lowsky alone. It was Jim and
Jay and their support staff. there's,
you know, the DIA and and contractor
staff that supported them. So Jay was
involved with the OSAP from the very
beginning.
>> And then then we we talk about OAP,
ATIP, these sorts of programs that are,
you know, very small dollar amounts, you
know, visav
>> $22 million, but
>> the inflation adjusted Manhattan
project.
>> Yeah. Harry Reid had an intention on
turning into a turning it into an
Manhattan project. uh he was intend this
was like just to get it started and then
the subsequent fiscal years that would
follow. He was intending this to go like
maybe a decade with worth a billion
dollars maybe $2 billion worth of
programmatics.
>> But you were simultaneously saying there
is an underlying program that is a
legacy reverse engineering program that
is
>> yeah that's sup this this after the fact
>> and that that has to
>> we were trying to get into the crash
retrieval program. our our goal was to
get after it and co-opt it into the OAP
so we could do what the goals of the
OPSAP wanted us to do. And I don't think
that was necessarily to bring it out in
the public domain. That was to keep it
con uh uh classified anyway. But our job
was to get access to it because we were
not convinced that there was any
progress made. And as a matter of fact,
the senior VP at at one of the aerospace
corporations who I had years worth of
interviews with uh before and after he
retired um confirmed that there was no
success in the reverse engineering
program after eight decades and it just
didn't go anywhere. They had modest
success like they understood the
materials that craft were made from.
They figured out how they were
constructed but we couldn't reproduce
any of it. We had no techn um we had no
fabrication or manufacturing technology
at the time of the crash retrieval
programs when they were fully funded and
fully act operating to figure that out.
We could just use our SEM and and
transmission SEM microscopes and other
advanced uh uh um condensed matter state
diagnostic tools and evaluate it, look
at it, look at it down into the into the
you know almost nano scale and we could
see how the materials were assembled but
we could not figure out how to reproduce
that process. If we have made no
progress, why aren't we more open with
the scientific community? That's the
security aspect of it. I I'm I'm not
involved with that policy aspect and I
don't have contact with the people that
make the policy on that. So, I can't
answer that.
>> But you are not that I don't want to. I
just don't know.
>> No, no, no. I get it. And you're But
you're saying confidently that there are
billion dollar budgets involved in the
actual core UFO location.
>> I don't know. I don't know that it's
that much. It was on that order from my
interviews with TRW and Loheed Martin
people. um uh that that was the or order
order of magnitude of the budget
expenditures that were given not on an
annual basis but it was more like maybe
over a u a 5 to 10 year period but then
the budget would go up and down just
like NASA's budget would go up and down
so the budgets would go up and they'd
have they'd be flushed with money get in
get a few more people in get some better
equipment in the lab and then the budget
gets cut and they got to go a bare
minimum operation, people get laid off
and whatever.
>> I wanted to ask you, you know, there's
this sort of not even lore, there is a
document called the Wilson Davis memo.
You get asked about it all the time.
It's uh kind of um apocryphal meeting
that occurred between you and I don't
know Thomas Wilson.
>> UFOs or something.
>> That's right.
>> The last gospel of the Bible. You are
famous for your meticulous note
takingaking and um apparently this
meeting took place in the EG&G parking
lot and it is this you know admiral who
is head of uh J2 joint.
>> He was retired at the time.
>> He was retired at the time back into
active duty for a short period of time
because he had to close out a project at
Area 51 that he was responsible for
under his office at the DIA uh that he
initiated and um it was a complicated
project. He he couldn't tell me because
I didn't have that kind of level of
access or anything like that. So he he
all I know is he said I'm back because
I've got to go back up into that he he
wouldn't say Area 51. I knew what he was
talking about. He was saying he used the
word back in those days the undeclared
or unagnowledged facility near the
Nevada test site and he had to go back
there because they needed to close out a
major project he initiated when he was
active duty uh DIA director and um and
so he was willing to meet with me at the
behest of two guys at the National
Nuclear Security Agency that I
personally knew, John Alexander and I
knew them. Uh we were all members of the
Association of Former Intelligence
Officers. We were forming a Las Vegas
chapter in 2002. So these guys were in
Las Vegas because one of them is the
director of intelligence at the NNSA
site in Vegas uh in Nevada and the other
one was the director of counter
intelligence uh at the NNSA site as
well.
>> And so at least formerly Wilson was
supposed to have all military tech under
his purview, under his scope. And he's
expressing a lot of frustration to you,
right, that he's just met with this
private corporation.
>> This is back in 97.
>> This is in 97,
>> the summer of 97.
>> And he's saying he's saying these
there's this team of people in the
hundreds of people. And they have this
tech this uh material that doesn't seem
to be of human origin and progress is
sort of slow and cumbersome, but that he
for whatever reason wasn't supervising
or overseeing it even though he should
have been. It's it's that he they claim
he didn't have need to know. And that's
possible. Uh their budget came from his
in other words, their their funding, I'm
sorry, their funding came from his
director's budget. The budget he gets as
a director. This was DIA money that he
wasn't aware of. He wasn't aware because
this this is a WOSAP. He hadn't been
read in on it. And so when you deal with
budget line items for these things,
they're just innocuous budget codes that
a comproller general of the defense
department or the military services or
of the US government understands how to
read a budget code and then a a a
standard plain English description is
deliberately meant to be vague so you
can't identify it. That way, if the
budget document gets gets captured by
espionage assets from foreign nations,
foreign adversaries, they won't
understand what the hell it is. So, all
they're going to see is something they
don't they may or may not even know how
to interpret and some innocuous words.
And this could be as as innocuous as
aerospace technology review or uh well,
let's look at the OAP, Advanced
Aerospace Weapon Systems Application
Program. It could be something similar
to that or of that nature. You'll see
something of that nature. It it it
doesn't say UFO, alien, off-world, you
know, it doesn't give you any clue or
indication as to what it is. It's meant
for that for that reason is to keep our
enemies off the track to be able to
figure out what we're spending our money
on and where. Wilson didn't know that
because he didn't have to need to know
just like a president in the United
States really doesn't have need to know
about the crash retrieval program
because mostly they have to know to ask
about it. And when they ask, that's an
order from him that somebody lower down
needs to give him a briefing. But if he
already doesn't know, he doesn't know to
ask.
>> What happened when Jimmy Carter got
briefed?
>> Uh, I don't know what the aftermath is,
but I know that Alonzo McDonald
confirmed to several of us that um and
our group during that era, the OAP era,
that uh he talked to the staff that
attended that briefing. He talked to
Carter and it happened. He even sent us
the June uh I don't remember the date in
June but I've got the document but it's
June 199 1977.
Uh it was an economic meeting in the
National Security Council meeting rooms
but then when it came time for this
classified UAP or UFO program briefing
they moved it to the Oval Office.
>> Do you know what the nature of the
meeting was?
>> Wow. That what we popularly known as
project Aquarius. And so, uh, I know
that Alonzo did not dispute that that
was the code name. It might not have
been, but it might have been, but he
said, "This was it. This is the real
deal. This really happened." And by the
way, I got from from the Carter Library,
the attendee list for that date, and it
shows the name of the regular meeting
for the economics something council
because that's what Alonzo Mcdonald's
job is at the White House. So, um,
>> is that public information? names of the
people that attended were there. The
only thing is two names and
organizations were redacted. Out of all
the lists on two pages, only two got
redacted.
>> Can you send me that?
>> I say again,
>> can you send me that with the
redactions? Obviously, that would be
amazing.
>> Um, so basically, uh, Alonzo confirmed
that it happened. He was then the
principal staff director of the White
House staff. I think that was the title
back then. Before that, he was Jimmy
Carter's special representative for
trade, I think, to the United Nations.
So, he had something like an ambassador,
an ambassador level title.
>> Do you know anything that transpired in
the meeting itself? As far as
>> well, he talked to Carter and and the
and the guys that are list named on that
list and he asked him what went what
transpired. Carter told him and the guys
in who attended told him.
>> And they said, "We learned that the
United States government has been in
contact with aliens, UFO beings." Um
>> Danny Shehan says Carter's head was Oh,
see what he does is when he's in a
moment of stress or something that's
really critical. Um Alonzo told us that
Jimmy or Cart President Carter has a
habit of putting his head down on his
table like this and praying. This is how
he prays. on his desk or at a table at a
briefing table. So that's what he was
doing. He was just praying and he was
praying about the consequence of this
information that he just now learned uh
what it's what it's consequence to
American society is and maybe to the
United States government and our defense
of our country against an unknown
potential hostile we don't know force
that we don't have a technology to
overwhelm. Did he learn about Have we
had treaties or agreements with any of
these beings?
>> That I never heard about. No, that never
came up.
>> Okay.
>> I I don't recall. I've seen the Aquarius
document. Alonzo said it was real.
People have been saying for years that
that was fabricated by Bill Moore uh and
Rick Dodie and it turns out no, Alonzo
said those guys had nothing to do with
anything. That document uh and by the
way, I don't think you can find that
document on the internet unless you use
the wayback machine all now nowadays. It
used to be available uh as late as 2010
or 11 and then it just gone.
>> So um Elono read every word of the
Aquarius briefing and he said, "Oh yeah,
that's what these guys told me that they
did." They the guys of the in the
briefing got together afterwards, went
to a motel and they basically wrote down
from memory uh what they recalled about
the briefing because they each got
briefing documents. When the briefing is
orally given, they're reading through
it. Then when the briefing is over, they
got to give the document back to the CIA
guy at the door that came the documents
because they're going to be destroyed.
>> Where where's what they wrote down from
memory. Where where are those documents?
>> Well, that's the thing. Those are gone.
Um, I'll get to that. So, uh, how do you
know they're gone?
>> The White House gets a copy, permanent
copy for their records. So, that's in a
really heavily classified part of the
Carter Library, I believe, maybe. And
then the, uh, CIA keeps a copy because
that's their program. Okay. So these
guys had eight 8 by 14 inch, you know,
legal pads and they all meet up in a
hotel um and they all start downpouring
from memory what they think they what
they recall of the briefing document. So
they they did a round robin. So
everybody passes their document to the
next guy, so forth and so on all the way
around. And so they're going to crossch
checkck what they remember against the
other guy's notes. And they're going to
keep doing this until they find, you
know, they're going to disagree on what
was said on this little point of this
language and this terminology and
whatnot. They're going to keep doing
that until they finally converge on a
document that that strongly
resembles the briefing document that
they all read and they all agree on it
and they said, "Yeah, this is more close
to what we read and we collectively, you
know, came to this convergent final
version." So, somebody typed that up on
a on a old-fashioned
uh electrothermal um printer, and that's
what you see in the photographs that
Bill Moore took of that document.
>> Okay.
>> And it was said that the senior falcon,
senior falcon was somebody else. I know
his name. I just can't think of it, but
it's in one of my uh one of my
investigation.
>> Why do all these guys have bird names?
>> I don't know. That's just the choice of
an admiral at the DIA. Okay. That a
nothing to do with the aviary. Aviary is
more in the 1990s conspiracy era or
maybe the late 80s even or that.
>> No, this is
>> senior falcon was a DIA uh officer who
was sent to communicate with Jamie
Shandere and Bill Moore. He's the one
that passed undeveloped 35mm film of the
so-called MJ12 documents. These are the
first generation documents that were
created by James Jesus Angleton's chop
shop, his his mole hunting document
production factory. So that's the
connection there is that these documents
came from the uh defense intelligence
agency. It was the uh director of human
intelligence collection
>> and Admiral uh EA Burkhalder Edward
Burkhalder was the director and Air
Force Colonel Roy Joners was his chief
of staff. So those documents came out of
there. Well this whole thing about the
films the the undeveloped roles of 35mm
film that would go to Bill Moore and
Jamie Shandur that was what that was
about. Rick Dodie was considered to be
the junior falcon, but he was not a
legitimate mediator of information from
the DIA to Bill Moore. He was more
coming out of AFOSI as a counter
intelligence agent trying to throw him
off the track.
>> Let's just keep it high level, I guess.
So, you have you have Roswell in 47. You
have magenta before that in Italy, but
then this this craft crashes there and
that gets transferred to US possession.
>> And then how many other crashes between
the 30s and today?
>> Um I can't give you the official number
because I know that number on a
classified basis. I could say it's less
than 40.
>> Okay. Less than 40. I think Halputo off
said on the Joe Rogan Experience
somewhere like we have between 10 and 15
crash crafts in our possession.
>> Said 15. I think he said more than 10,
but that's still
>> more than 10. Okay, got it.
>> More than 10. I'll just say less than
40.
>> Okay. Would you describe the majority as
wreckage or intact?
>> Uh, mix.
>> Even mix. Okay. Okay.
>> And not all of them involve recovery of
N and HI bodies.
>> Dr. Davis. Uh,
what gives you confidence that we
haven't made progress with any of this
material?
>> Uh, I can't speak
of my confidence level after
my senior VP source died.
Uh, because before then, I'm highly
confident because he was still connected
in. Uh, he was he was still on active
duty work up until he got retired in the
early 2010s. Then he's retired after
that. So he's sharing with me the
information that he had all the way up
until he retired. And so I'm highly
confident 100% level that what he told
me is right. And a matter of fact, he
arranged for me to meet one of his
co-workers on the crash retrieval
program back in the 70s and 80s.
>> Did you meet them?
>> Oh, yeah. It was a woman. I met her. I
we he my source, his wife, uh took me to
her home, picked her up. We went into
San Jose to have dinner at a German
restaurant. How many of those people
crash retrieval program people have you
met total?
>> Okay. So I think it's five total. Okay.
>> Five total at that one at that
particular company.
>> How many have you met total in your
life?
>> It was just those two from that company
and one from TRW.
>> Okay. Wow. Did you meet many of the 40
uh of Dave Brush's firsthand witnesses?
>> Say again.
>> Did you meet many of the 40 of
>> I didn't even know who they are really.
He never shared that with me.
>> I see that. I have a rough guess, but
believe me, don't confuse that 40
>> Yeah.
>> with the 40 core people on the task
force on the UAP task force. They're
they're not
>> totally different. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. They're totally different. There's
no overlap.
>> No, that that that makes I would hope
that there's an overlap.
>> Yeah. I don't think Dave was allowed to
tell me the names of those people or
their organizations and where they're
located because that was woo level.
>> Yeah. Final question before I want to
get into the the second section of this
discussion uh where I want you to drive
mostly, but um uh how did Admiral Thomas
Wilson react uh when you when you met
him in 1997 and and why I guess why did
people direct him to you and then uh
what transpired in the in the meeting?
>> I can't get into that because you can't
confirm or deny that we met for the
security reasons. Okay.
>> There are legal issues still involved
that are active. So, um, uh, because I
can't reveal that in public. That wasn't
meant for public,
>> uh, consumption and that was released
from Mitchell's estate.
>> Mhm.
>> And, um, that was supposed to be
destroyed one year after Mitchell got a
copy of it as a courtesy from from who
generated it. And uh unfortunate that
his kids were sloppy and um and I guess
Ed was sloppy in that he didn't give any
instructions on what to do with that
document if if he should die, but he was
supposed to destroy that as far as I
understand. I um I would be remiss if I
didn't. I this can be cut if it's not
okay to air, but uh during our
discussion in San Francisco, you did uh
confirm that you wrote the Wilson Davis
notes by way of a conversation about
>> I I can confirm
>> seeking legal legal counsel.
>> Yeah, they're real. They're legit.
They're 100% accurate. Yeah.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> But that's the typewritten version. Um
that there's a handwritten version, but
that's all I could say about it. Um uh
so
>> have you have you ever seen a UFO?
>> Oh, yeah. My wife and I did in Tucson,
Arizona. Broad daylight. A boomerang
shaped craft below traffic pattern
altitude. Uh looked
kind of like halfway boomer boomerang
halfway heel boot heel type shape, but
it was close. Yeah. Have you ever seen a
a craft in a hanger?
>> No.
>> I wish. I wanted to.
>> Have you ever seen any oneofone
material? So idiosyncratic, never seen
before material.
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. And the arts parts don't qualify.
>> We don't know what the providence of
that is. and Hal and I were involved in
the um TTS uh meeting at the Pentagon
conference room in August of 2024
where we read the full 90page ORL
that's the office uh Oakidge National
Laboratory uh there 90page materials
analysis report on the arts parts and
there was nothing there there was no
there there's a little bit of am
ambiguity because here's the ambiguity
the way that material material was
assembled is not consistent with what we
were doing in the 1940s era when
magnesium became a major top uh a major
alloy of interest for the aerospace
community. Um and so uh that's the
ambiguity but the isotope ratios or the
materials it contains are earth they're
manufactured. Part of what I love about
you is you are a walking compendium of
all these exotic uh you know
experiments, physics experiments and
whenever you know anybody gets uh some
sort of anomalous result uh uh you are a
great evaluator of that and you've
written a book that I will uh I'll plug
here called uh Frontiers of Propulsion
Science where you've comprehensively
reviewed a lot of these sort of more
exotic you know propellantless
propulsion sort of you know uh
modalities. Have you ever seen uh an
exotic experimental result or an
experimental result that's anomalous
rather that um you believe is is real
and replic replicable and and and not
>> No, I wish I did. I haven't
>> nothing that's ever you know breaks the
sort of standard model or you know any
anything?
>> No, certainly not.
>> Okay. I just think that the standard
model has done an outstanding job
through the avenue of condensed matter
theory to come up with some pretty
exotic condensed matter states which
have been uh you know theoretical
curiosities decades ago and now we've
advanced our laboratory technology and
condensed matter physics so well that
they're discovered they're being
discovered right now. So they're really
wonderful wonderful exotic states
insulator topological insulators
metamaterials uh uh all kinds of other
stuff like majorana particles that are
supposed to be uh I think they're
massless aren't they Eric
>> that if you have a
>> the majorana particles
>> if you have a a myana mass mechanism
different from a dac mech uh mass
mechanism that's only possible if a
particle is its own antiparticle. Yeah,
that's right. Correct. That's right. But
they these are not free particles. These
are quasi particles because they are uh
rep they are they're quasi particles
because they're created by the
collective action of the electrons in
the semiconductor or condensed matter
system.
>> I want to seed the floor uh to my former
colleague Eric Weinstein. Uh I
appreciate you indulging all my crazy
UFO questions. Just wanted to kind of
establish a ground truth around Eric
Davis's past experience. Uh, one of my
favorite comments on our last discussion
with Hal Putoff was now I know what a
dog feels like when it watches TV. And
so if uh, you know, this is not for the
faint of mind, just so you're aware
from, you know, for the audience, uh,
this will be a really fun discussion,
but I, you know, I want to get into what
we touched on, which is why are there no
theoretical physicists on the program
and what do you think is going on? H how
do you think maybe what we've talked
about with the observables of UFOs might
dovetail with some of your theories?
>> Okay. Well, I I don't even know how to
begin this. I mean, look, the first
thing is is that in general, I can
produce too many explanations through a
creative, sometimes undisiplined mind
for a certain set of facts. And this is
one of the only times and perhaps the
only time I've ever seen a situation
where I cannot come up with a single
theory of what's going on that explains
all of the bizarre behavior in UFO UAP
land. Too many people who seem
relatively reasonable with nearly idic
memories talking about particular names,
dates.
It is impossible to me that we have a
theater company that has figured out how
to create this space opera. And on the
other hand, the lack of anything
tangible.
Um I don't believe in a something this
this old, this long, this many events
that we have absolutely nothing uh to go
on. So let me just say from the
beginning that this is the odd
situation. One of the reasons nobody
from my world wants to get involved with
it is that
um it just makes you look foolish from
the point of view of a scientist.
>> Well, because involved unless they're
working on a contract
>> well, but then they get a clearance.
>> Sky is a big place
>> and
>> I disagree.
>> You said that you've
>> one of the top government scientists. I
can't think of his name. You would know
who it is. Uh
gosh, he was a physicist and I just Hal
put off knew him and um he had all he
had a lot of clearances into the
Manhattan project, the post Manhattan
project, uh a lot of other high
technology projects throughout areas of
the DoD. Um uh and and so he was a
academician and he had clearances. A
colleague of mine up at Baylor also has
uh DoD clearance classification
classifications and he's working on
classified stuff that you're not
familiar with. You've never heard of.
You won't get access to it. If you have
a contract
>> that requires a clearance, you will get
access to something you don't know about
in the public.
>> Okay. I I understand that there's a lot
of stuff that's classified. We have an
entire system of national labs. There's
no question about that. I'm talking I'm
talking about
like at the level of ground truth right
our our two primary theories are the
standard model and general relativity
both of them are relevant here as
limitations
on what we can understand of the world
we see and if somebody has access to
theories beyond those two uh and they
predicate manufacturing on it and then
we get the gifts of that manufacturing
just assuming that that story is correct
um we should be seeing some very weird
stuff that is not explicable as if
Newton was looking at
Lorent contraction. You would say, "What
the heck is that?" And
um so I'm just going to begin with
things that make me hugely
uncomfortable. And again, it's not as a
a dig or it's like I just can't figure
this out. So, we toss off these humanoid
aliens,
like aliens that are tetropods,
literally tetropod body plans. We have
arachnids, we have insects, we have
sephopods, we have all sorts of
intelligent life that doesn't follow a
tetropod
body plan. The odd of a humanoid
evolving through convergent evolution
somewhere else
of a humanoid I is vanishingly small
>> but it's not zero.
>> Yeah, but it's preposterous.
>> But Aam's razor wouldn't be that these
beings would be from elsewhere. They
would be that they would be derivative
of humans
>> or or look you you can tell me some
other story like these things aren't
even really the beings that that the
real beings have constructed these
things to interact with us not to not to
make us uncomfortable. Okay, I
understand that.
>> Do you believe that?
>> That's possible.
>> Okay.
>> All right. But any biologist hearing
this story is just going to have the
same reaction like tetropods. This
sounds like it came out of a, you know,
Buck Rogers thing where you had to, it
was too high too too hard to hire an
actor to behave as if they had a
completely different body plan. So all
all alien aliens from the golden age of
cinema or silent movies, whatever, were
going to be tetropods if they were
playing an alien. So that first of all
really bugs me is that I don't want to
hear about that with no mention of it is
stunning that there are two eyes a mouth
a head and it walks the same way we do.
I mean even if you look at like a I
don't know a camel's legs you know that
where we have a knee it has an ankle or
you know something like that. Mhm.
>> So,
so that's that's the first part and
that's just the biological.
The next part is um I I was very
interested looking through some of your
physics papers. You seem to live in a
world that I really honestly didn't know
existed. So, I learned something from
that. It's sort of like national
security physics.
>> National security physics.
>> Yeah. It's not like a real thing, but if
I look at a lot of your papers, they're
focused on
bizarre,
how would I put it? Bizarre physics that
accepts the standard model in general
relativity is ground truth predicated on
some sort of engineering desire. No, I'm
just looking at uh for my per my book uh
I was looking at the physics of what's
possible with anti-gravity,
gravitational wave propulsion or rockets
within what? Within what framework?
>> Say again.
>> Within GR. Yeah.
>> So GR with or without positivity
constraints or how are you
>> how are you um
we'll slow it down. First of all, I
don't understand if these things are
here from out of town. If they're not
co-resident with us here on Earth,
they're not here using the standard
model in general relativity. I don't
think I mean, it's not impossible, but
>> but I'm not doing UFO physics. I'm doing
propulsion physics for interstellar
flight. This I'm not looking at this
from a UFO perspective. I'm doing this
as part of another.
>> So, maybe you can make this. So, you're
holes, things like that.
>> Okay.
Yeah, I'm not doing this because of
UFOs. I'm just saying, hey,
>> if this is valid to any degree and we
could expect maybe or pray maybe that in
the future we can engineer these things.
This could be how UFOs move because
we're trying to develop this physics for
exploitation as a technology for future
interstellar and interstellar missions.
So this is hugely important for me just
to understand the context. If I
understand and please correct me if I'm
wrong because I don't want to push
anything that isn't true. I think what
you're saying is assume a proof of
concept that something can voyage at an
interstellar level with intention. Okay.
Assuming that one piece of information,
attempt to figure out how that could be
done as best you can with the tools we
have.
Yes. Okay.
So then you and I completely polarize I
think and again I could be wrong on one
one issue. I would not be wasting my
time and again that's judgmental. I
would feel that I was wasting my time if
I was trying to do this with GR with
general relativity.
>> Okay.
>> I might have an alcoiri warp drive but
I'd think how much energy do I need to
warp space in this particular way right?
or well I could fall into a spinning
black hole and you know maybe I could
try to figure how this would be
traversible and non-c catastrophic
and I could imagine using all of the
exotica of GR well I'll just I'll bet
everything on time dilation
and it'll be really expensive to go
there and home but I can still get there
>> yes
>> using uh Laurent uh conversion factors
none of that has any appeal to me.
Clearly, it's had great a great appeal
to you. It's just fine. We're we can
pull we can polarize on that.
Surely you don't think
it's m isn't it much more plausible that
if craft were true and we accept that as
our premise that it's basically proof
that GR isn't the last world, that
general relativity is a constricting
framework and that there's something
beyond it that has general relativity as
an effective theory. I agree with that.
>> And they're using that.
>> I agree with that.
>> Okay. So, that makes this mysterious,
which is why are you using GR
>> because that's the only tool I have that
I know of from my graduate education and
my research interest. And so, I don't I
I don't have the liberty to I'm not a
pure theoretical physicist. I'm more of
like one foot theory, one foot applied.
>> Okay. So, let's let's take that.
If I had access to anything that
seemingly was breaking GR, general
relativity,
I'd be dreaming about things related to
general relativity because we know that
we don't like general relativity at a
deep level. It's got a terrible variable
in it which is called the metric
>> where it's easy to fall into things that
are not metrics from the space of
metrics. things it just doesn't behave
well in terms of quantization. We know
that we have got these two kinks in
spaceime called the initial singularity
which we associate with the big bang and
the Schwarz or black hole singularity
that we associate with collapsed stars.
>> Yeah.
>> And
I don't like GR.
I mean, I love it from the point of view
of of Einstein having pulled it off, but
it's a 110 years past its sell by date.
And why
why are you not tweaking it?
>> I'm don't have intuition on how I could
twe tweak it.
>> Okay. So,
>> and I would rather somebody smarter than
me do that.
I would like to have somebody who tweaks
it and I could look at it and say, "Hey,
it either does or does not predict a
potential propulsion mode that could get
us where we want to go across
interstellar distances without the
consequence of G over C to the 4th.
So
how do I interpret
There are a lot of people who are
interested in gravity.
>> Yeah.
>> And there none of them on this program.
>> Say that again. Other people are
interested in
>> Let me start from a different place.
There's this 1971
Australian document that I became aware
of where the Australian intelligence
officer Harry do you remember
>> Harry Turner who was head of their
nuclear division
>> starts writing down
here's what we surmise about our friends
the Yanks and their efforts in this area
>> okay
>> and he names I don't know six
universities uh in the Institute for
Advanced Study MIT Purdue Indiana.
Um I forget what what the complete list
is. And he names like Arnowit Deser.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Uh Dyson, Oenheimer.
And it sounds like the Manhattan Project
for Gravity.
>> Okay.
>> And
this is broadly consistent with this
story that I've been uh I think I first
did it on on Rogan in episode 1945,
which they gave me the Trinity date. I
love that.
um
which is that we have this bizarre thing
called the golden age of general
relativity. Yeah. which makes absolutely
no sense.
And it's a story about two people uh
Agnu Bainson and Roger Babson who appear
to be in the language of the
intelligent. Again, I'm not a guy who
thinks he's seen a bunch of Jason Bourne
movies so he can talk the lingo, but
they appear to be what I've been told
are cutouts. And they're both fitted
with stories, it seems, about why they
need to contribute in the ant to
anti-gravity.
And they find two physicists to work
through, one named Bryce Dwit. So Agnu
Baineson and John Wheeler find Bryce Dit
and set him up at the University of
North Carolina Chapel Hill at the
Institute of Field Physics.
>> Right. And then the other one, Roger
Babson, uh, out of New Boston, New
Hampshire,
uh, seems to be somehow linked up with a
guy named Lewis Whitten, who's a
gravitational physicist out of John's
Hopkins for his PhD
and found something that sounds like
Bell Labs that nobody's ever heard of
called the Research Institute of
Advanced Study or RA
and it has Sheldon Glashau within it. It
has Rudolph Colman within it. It has
Solomon left the topologist comes out of
retirement
to work inside of the Martin. And we
always talk about Lockheed, but we don't
talk about Glenn Glennel Martin that
became Martin Marietta that became
Loheed Martin. So, it's the Martin that
really matters. And to me,
>> correct?
>> And
>> and you and I have talked about that
years past. I've read the documents or
the websites you've sent to me and I'm
already familiar with elements of that.
>> Okay. I've got old newspaper clip.
>> All right. So, we we've got 18 talent.
We've got Sheldon Glashia, Rudolph
Common, Solomon Lefchettz, uh Deser
Arnowit, Dyson. This this begins to feel
like, you know, the boys are back in
town.
>> Yeah. This is physics firepower.
>> Yeah. Right.
And then the trail just seems to go cold
in the beginning of the 1970s.
>> Correct.
So, and I could never reconcile that. I
noticed that back in graduate school
during the 80s and I went to an APS
meeting. That's the American Physical
Society. So, I went to APS meeting with
my dissertation supervisor and I ran
into they had like a booth for the APS,
you know, all the books they sell. uh
the the the Physics Today magazine.
Well, that was published by somebody
else actually, but uh they have all that
for members for membership services and
benefits. And uh so they've got this
advertising booth in the commercial
exhibit part of the uh conference and
they had the APS historian.
And I brought that up with the historian
like what 1984
and Bob Forward at uh was still at the
Hughes Research Labs in Malibu. He's the
one that motivated me to ask that
question because he had been looking at
anti-gravity when he was at Hughes. And
this is before he got his PhD in general
relativity under Joseph Weber at um
University of Maryland in the late 50s.
And the APS historian had no answer for
me as to where this disconnect between
the Yeah. Where where what happened
anti-gravity research? What happened to
this golden age of GR? Uh he said he
said something the effect of similar
what you said. It disappeared in the 70s
but he never saw what happened. All of a
sudden roughly the early 80s now we have
super string theory coming up.
No, there's a there's an innergonome.
So we have this golden age of general
relativity.
Um things culminate in the standard
model 7374 in particle theory.
>> There is a period where there are two
great ideas in physics super symmetry
and grand unification
>> right
>> which dominate during the 70s. Then
there's a pre-stringl like craze for
something called n equals8 supergravity.
And n equals8 supergravity
>> supergravity
>> was the candidate theory that's too
unique to be wrong theory of everything.
And then right up until 1984
where we get the green schwarz anomaly
cancellation and Ed Whitten, Lewis
Whitten's son directs the entire field
uh to put its energies on one bet. And
this is where the the phrase the only
game in town which yeah I remember that
>> toget to o gi t the only game in town
and toget takes over physics where if
you say anything that isn't string
during this period right after 1984 it's
a bloodbath
and basically fineman is upset about it
is upset about it basically pleads no
contest and says I I'm voting with my
feet and going to go do this cosmology
in Texas.
And
years later, we get this very weird
meeting about AI, not not related to
physics, between Mark Andre and Ben
Horovitz.
And they're sat down and told, "Do not
invest in AI startups. AI startups are
not going to be allowed to be a thing.
We're going to have two or three a AI
companies and we're going to cocoon them
in part as part of the federal
government."
>> Huh. and Andre
uh and Horvitz are sitting there and
Horovitz says well I think they say well
how are you going to restrict this you
can't do it at the technology level
because it's just math and you can't
classify math
>> so so Ben basically said look it doesn't
make sense because to regulate AI at the
technology level you're regulating math
and of course we're not going to do that
like that doesn't make any sense and
you'll recall that what they said was no
actually
>> we can classify math
>> we can classify math and literally this
was this is verb this is verbatim this
is this is we we did We we classified
whole entire areas of physics uh with in
the nuclear era and and made made them
state secrets like of the of the like
theoretical
>> physics. Yeah.
>> Science of physics.
>> Okay. Now quantum gravity
if you look and you do a Google engram
search there is basically no hits on
quantum gravity until around 1972.
and it comes out of nowhere and we're
backfitted with a story where
um
I can get almost any physicist of today
to repeat the phrase that uh quantum
gravity is the holy grail of theoretical
physics. It's a fictitious history.
>> I remember that's when Fing Davies
um Ford and that group started
publishing their papers on semiclassical
quantum gravity. Well, but my my point
is the physicists do not know their own
history. Just the way most academicians
believe that peer review goes back to
the founding of the Royal Society and
it's very clear that it comes from about
1965 to 1975.
>> Okay.
>> Um so what we've done is we've erased
institutional memory
of the physicist's origin story from the
physics community. And the this issue of
quantum gravity
looks like a blocking mechanism
that it basically binds to the receptor
of a physicist's mind and it causes them
not to make progress. And so we're 42
years into an unquestionable
um
feels like a mass psychosis.
>> Yeah. We've had all these different
approaches that never work to quantize
gravity.
>> Right. So you have you have what appears
to be a mass delusion. Not that it
wouldn't be a good theory. I I believe
that gra gravity has to be harmonized
with the quantum. I'm not disputing the
quantum.
>> Yeah, there's no question.
>> But the idea that Einstein must be
beaten uh taken to the ground and forced
to submit to the quantum has not been
productive.
>> Correct.
>> And I agree.
>> Okay.
>> But after 42 years of failure, you would
imagine we would hold at least one, two,
or 10 conferences saying, "What do we
have wrong? Why are we not trying to
make progress?
>> And you don't see that.
>> Well, that's the mirror to your thing
that there are no physicists on the
program. But in other words, this is an
effect that is so dumb.
It it is so pathologically stupid, so
unfathomably wasteful.
Why would you not question your own lack
of progress? You know, in in fact,
Leonard Suskin, one of the fathers of
modern string theory, was on a show of a
sister podcast, Kurt Ji. Mongol's
Theories of Everything.
>> I or maybe it was with Lawrence Krauss
and he says, "We have to go back to the
beginning. We have to question
absolutely. We got this wrong. We if we
don't go back to the foundations, I'm
just thinking like finally it's
breaking." He says, "The foundations."
and he says of string theory
I said oh string theory has failed so
what we need to do is not question the
string assumption but we have to go back
to the foundations of string theory and
fix string theory I mean it's an
infinite sequence so one of the
questions that I have is
is physics just are we are we not
getting the obvious somebody figured out
that physics is just too dangerous to do
in a university setting
>> it seems that way to me. It seems that
way to me
>> because you see now we're a joke.
>> That's right.
>> But in 19 I don't know 7977
you had these two Strand effect
problems. You had a guy named John
Aristotle Phillips who was a junior at
Princeton who chose Freeman Dyson for
his advisor for his junior thesis. He
said look I'm the Princeton mascot. I'm
not really very good at physics. can we
use the fact that I'm not really good at
physics to do something novel? And Dyson
said, like what? He said, well, I want
to design an atomic weapon, and I want
you to tell me whether my design would
work using my limited understanding of
physics. And Dyson said, as long as I
give you no information, I simply tell
you whether it would work or not. You do
it all 100% you're on. So, he submitted
his junior thesis. Dyson took one look
at it and said, "Yeah, this will work."
They removed page 20. Uh,
and I believe it is not found in the
Princeton Library with all of the other
junior thesis.
>> Oh, really?
>> You You've never heard this story?
>> I've not heard that story before. That's
news.
>> Okay. Well,
>> that's very interesting. Very, very
telling.
>> John Aristotle Phillips is the guy who
is in the center of that. There's
another guy named Howard Morland who
heard that name
>> who worked for the progressive magazine
and he had the assignment see if you can
figure out with no knowledge of physics
the teller ulam design for the hydrogen
bomb
and he did it and he did it because all
of the
um
information had been sharded and
discarded and declassified. He basically
put the pieces of the broken coffee cup
back together by being meticulous. So,
it was a an archaeology and reassembly.
It was a reverse engineering program
from the from the shredder of
theoretical physics.
>> Yeah, I agree with that. That sounds
like it.
>> Okay. Well, that that violates
restricted data, which is this bizarre
doctrine that comes from the 50
four
>> four and 46 atomic energy acts.
And the government wanted to
use prior injunction against him because
he had no right to free speech in this
area. And I think what they found was we
can't stop him because we declassified
all the information he used.
So that gave the government a huge
problem which is it was creating a a
stray sand effect and calling attention
to the fact that there are no nuclear
secrets. I mean there probably many but
the core ideas are not are not the
gating function.
>> Yeah that's right.
>> Okay.
Shortly after that we get string theory
and we become kind of incapable.
>> Right. It's like the glass bead game or
something that amuses people at a very
high level. Like we're turning the best
physicists into chess players because
nobody ever blew something up with a
rook. Right.
And
I guess my question to you is are these
two sides of the same coin that we don't
make progress beyond the standard model
and general relativity and we don't have
any physicists on the UFO UAP claimed
crash retrieval program.
I've always thought that the answer is
yes to that question.
>> Do you have any interaction with the
Jasons?
>> No, never.
>> You know who they are?
>> They change. They're not always the same
group. No, I've never met any of them. I
know who. And when I at the time I knew
who was in the Jason's, uh, I didn't
know any of the people on the committee.
>> Do you want to describe what they're
supposed to be?
>> They're supposed to solve problems that
the DoD gives to them.
>> And it's supposed to be comprised of
high level physicists, mathematicians,
and the like.
>> Yeah. Engineers, too. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> There specific government problems. Uh,
problem. Yeah. Problems. they need a
solution for. So they give a contract to
adjacents to study a particular thread
of problems over a summer. These are
academicians. So they're off from school
for the summer and they devote their
time and energy to solving this problem.
Produce a report, turn it in, they
collect the money, they're done.
One of the things that I think is really
interesting is that there are a tiny
number of people
at a very high level in theoretical in
the foundations of theoretical physics.
>> Correct.
>> And I think most people don't understand
what some of these people are. If I if I
show you a violinist who's a a soloist,
there's no possibility you can convince
yourself that that guy knows nothing or
that anybody could do that, right? Like
you see something that's so astounding,
it only a tiny few could do it. I
believe that the same thing is true
about theoretical physics and pure
mathematics that once you're in the
game, you realize how what a tiny number
of people are at the highest level in
this game and it's just very vertical
and it's there's no mercy.
>> Oh, that's true.
>> Okay. So, here
>> I've known that all the way since I was
in middle school. I read enough of
physics literature when I was a kid. I
realize that.
>> So, here's my question. If I look at
those people, they're so few in number.
I could track all of them
>> and you pretty much know, not exactly,
but by their PhD, you have a 75% chance
that you've identified deep talent.
>> Yeah. So, you know, one of the things
I've said to Jesse is if you wanted to
figure out that the NSA was there be
while there was still no such agency,
you'd look at number theory PhDs and
you'd ask what zip codes do number
theory PhDs live in when they don't get
an academic job that's visible and you
find that they're clustered around Fort
me.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Do the same thing for this.
Imagine that what you need is you need
general relativity, the differential
geometry that goes underneath it. So
let's call that Romanian geometry. The
standard model, the differential
geometry that goes underneath that,
we'll call Ariserismanian geometry. and
what modern geometric uh field theory,
you know, TQFT's conformal field
theories on up.
Shouldn't we be able to figure out if
there is a program that's actually
working on this where it's located by
virtue of the fact that there's almost
nobody in this game and we we can track
their physical movements. In other
words, we would have figured out that
there was an awful lot of physics
firepower at a boy school in in New
Mexico.
That's very interesting.
So like a little detective search.
>> I mean my point is is that th this is
the bottleneck and in the current vogue
of saying you know the lone genius
theory is wrong. Um then that that
wouldn't work. But the lone genius
theory is clearly right. I mean it's
just obviously right. It's a it's a scop
to say it isn't. So my my claim is I
know a great deal of those people like
personally.
>> Okay.
>> I see no indication
that they know about any such program
and the only exception I can find is
that there's one black hole that you go
into and you don't come out of called
Renaissance Technologies that hires in
these exact specialties.
It's got a level of profitability that
doesn't really make sense based on what
I know about markets
>> and it's got a secure campus. It's right
next to Brook Haven National Laboratory
and it has the resources of Sunni
Stonybrook and Sunni Stonybrook has a
math and a physics presence that is far
above its rating as a state university
of New York
>> campus even as a even as a flagship.
>> I wasn't aware of that. That's on that's
uh uh in Long Island. Correct.
>> Correct. I mean, I think most people
didn't realize that Cen Yang
was the world's greatest living
theoretical physicist until very
recently. I mean, he was like 104, but
that's where he was. He was the State
University of New York at Stonybrook.
>> I didn't know that. Wow. Um, so my
my question is, can we figure out
whether or not there is a grown-up
effort? Because I don't think it's
really easily possible to reverse
engineer these things when your science
is lagging.
Like GR is the problem. The standard
model is the problem.
>> That absolutely.
>> And yet you your papers
>> Well, my papers are separate from that.
That's the whole point. It has nothing
to do with UFOs. has to do with Mark
propulsion physics program. I'm just
contributing my knowledge.
>> Those those designs aren't going to
work.
>> Well, I didn't know that then, but I'm
at a point where I know that it's
difficult. Well, it's going to be beyond
difficult to engineer warp drives and
wormholes.
>> Well, this is what regardless I'm very
glad we're having this configuration you
>> I took one look at this stuff and I just
said, why is he why is he wasting his
time? You know,
>> it's it's it's it's interest me. It's
what I love and I haven't been able to
figure out any way to jump off that
track and get on a track to an
alternative version that could lead to
something as revolutionary as
transmedium propulsion that UAP
demonstrate.
>> Okay. So, at a bare minimum bare minimum
it we would say GR and the standard
model but I already know that even at
the bare minimum that's probably not
even touching the truth.
>> Right. I think what's happening is is I
think the UAP craft are manipulating the
uh the information domain because I
think that there's a subquantum domain
of information. Uh people talk about
Shannon, I'm talking about Fiser
information that Roy Frieden at the
University of Arizona uh did a lot of
research for 25 years on published two
books through Cambridge University Press
on Fiser information was able to use
that to derive all of the major theories
and principles of physics including the
Wheeler Dwit equation from that being
observed and the observer. So it's all
based on the observer which is quite a
quantum pro uh quantum statement. So,
it's a I don't I'd have to dig it up out
of my phone to be able to read to you
the two key terms of Fisher information
from which physics deres.
New scientists did an article on it
which was just brilliant. It was in the
>> Yeah, I'm I'm not following exactly
>> late60s but
>> late 90s sorry. So look, right now
there's a vogue for if physics doesn't
work, we can talk about quantum
information and information theory
because computers have money and so it's
a way for us to try to get money from
people who know computers by making
physics
>> like information is the is the basic
layer of the world. So I I've watched
that push for a change of variables just
like let's make black holes the new
harmonic oscillator that the test object
that we push everything onto.
I really don't find that highly
compelling. Like we we basically have
quirks, lepttons, force particles, Higs,
we have this arena called spacetime.
It's all a model. The model is extremely
good. But we don't live there. We don't
live in spaceime.
>> No, I know that.
>> Okay.
>> It's not lines, curves, points, and
manifolds. It's it's a physical space.
>> No, but it may be a manifold. I'm not
saying that it isn't. I'm saying that
you know because of the defects in in
these theories
that you're looking at an effective
theory and you're trying to figure out
what the parent theory is.
>> You have any guesses about that?
>> That's goes back to some ruminations
I've had based on quantum entanglement
quantum uh uh entanglement networks.
People in quantum magazine had talked
about the work they were doing on
quantum entanglements and tensor
networks where they were able to show in
a model how
the big bang is actually a unfolding or
an emerging of spaceime and elementary
particles and the interaction forces
from entanglement networks and I just
don't know how long that has has how far
that has gotten as a theoretical
development but I know that the initial
stage of work that was done in the mid20
2010s was pretty promising. I just
haven't heard haven't found any
publications
to show or inform me on where they've
gotten with it.
>> Let's talk about getting a craft across
interstellar distances.
>> You've got some kind of and I I want to
be
>> clear that I think propulsion may even
be misleading, but there's something
like is there is there a method of
conveyance? Let's let's call it
conveyance.
Second of all, there's an energy
requirement,
>> of course. And what I'm looking at, I
hate to interrupt you, but what I'm
looking at is something that bypasses GR
because GR is difficult to use.
>> Well, let's talk let's talk about that
one.
>> Get around that whole energy requirement
that shuts down the ability to engineer
and build wormholes or warp drives. We
we've got to come up with something that
gets out of that whole GR.
>> You're grooved towards
this toolkit that's pushed in front of
us, right? Like entanglement is a real
thing,
>> but we talk about it in my opinion
sometimes too much.
I think another thing like that is black
holes wormholes.
>> Again, real things, but at some level we
don't know whether the black hole in the
sky and the black hole in the model are
the same black hole.
>> Yeah.
>> And
all of these things that we can do lead
nowhere, right? We've been around the
traffic circle a million times and by
the third time you've seen the same
7-Eleven, you're starting to think
something's wrong.
Let's talk about GR as a problem.
So in the standard equation in GR, we've
got really three terms. We've got the
Einstein curvature term. We've got the
dark energy cosmological constant term
>> lambda lambda g
>> well lambda times g mu the metric g mu
and this constant times the stress
energy tensor for everything else
>> the coupling constant. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Desessie in Arizona
has uh thrown some cold water on the
idea that lambda is a good model for
dark energy because it appears that it's
not constant.
>> I've heard that. Yeah, I've seen some
news about that coming out. Some was it
just theoretical or was there uh hints
of it from observations?
>> That's what I'm saying. The dark energy
spectroscopic instrument or desi
>> seems like it's showing that it's more
it's actually not variable.
>> Yeah, it's time dependent. So, it's
dynamical as opposed to static being a
constant
>> which sounds like a ve a vacuum
expectation value. So that people always
make this mistake, you know, what is the
temperature of the room? And they say
71°.
You say, well, in which corner? And then
the person thinks, oh, well, I'm sure it
varies between the the floor and the
ceiling and where you are close to the
window. And
>> that idea that a thing is mostly
constant but with fluctuations
>> um is the promotion of a simple number
like lambdom to field content, something
that can vary.
Now
there's a thing called love locks
theorem.
>> Oh, I'm familiar with that. He was a
mathematician at the University of
Arizona. Yeah. Where I went to school,
so I knew him.
>> So tell me about love locks theorem and
variable
uh dark energy.
>> Oh gosh, I can't even think of love
locks theorem, but I know what you're
talking about. Why don't you go ahead
and
>> Well, so the way I remember it, again,
this is I wasn't preparing to do this,
but
>> because keep in mind, it's been 40 years
since I had tensor calculus. uh using
Lovelock's manuscript for his
>> would vodka
>> second book.
>> Yeah,
there you Yes.
>> Um I think what it says is
that when it comes to geometry,
there are only two tensors you can make
that have this property of being
divergence free that are not dependent
uh on anything else. In other words,
it's a two-dimensional space.
>> And one of them is the Einstein
curvature tensor, which is divergence
free by property of taking an automatic
equation that has to that has to be
satisfied called the Bianke identity.
>> The Bianca
>> and turning it into a different equation
that says that the theory is not
bothered by how you put coordinates on a
system.
>> Correct.
>> That sounds familiar. Yeah.
>> So that's that's the idea of the arm. Mu
new minus 1/2 scaler time g mu newu. The
Einstein curvature tensor is
perpendicular to the space of
transformations of coordinates.
>> Yeah, it's like uh what the intrinsic
curvature. It looks like intrinsic
curvature, right? Well, it's it's the
remon curvature with the vile curvature
thrown away and a trace reversal of this
one piece of the you've got a 10
components of reachi curvature and one
component can be broken out and put them
had a minus sign put in front,
>> right?
>> That object has an automatic
differential equation. And the other one
that has the same automatic differential
equation is lambda times the metric
because if you try to differentiate the
metric
that's always going to be zero by virtue
of the fact that a metric is constant in
its own liita connection. But by the
product rule, if you put a lambda in
front of it, then
the derivative of lambda is zero times
the metric plus lambda* the derivative
of the metric, which is zero for that
same reason. Correct?
>> That those are the only two simple
tensors that have this property. So if
you lose love locks theorem, sorry if
you have love locks theorem and you lose
the constancy of dark energy, you're
starting to actually put general
relativity in some peril.
>> That's very interesting. I hadn't
thought about that. Okay.
>> Depends how you conceive of general
relativity. to continue with this.
>> I don't
believe
that you can engineer these craft
within general relativity or standard
model in any way other than formally. So
the alubi warp drive is a formal
solution to the problem because it it
leaves unressed how the weakest possible
of all forces gravity could be employed
at this completely different level to to
you know sandwich spaceime on top of
itself.
I don't think the generationships make
any sense 800 years.
>> Oh I agree with you.
>> Okay. I don't believe that um
the time dilation makes any sense. It's
too expensive because everybody's dead
when you get back.
>> It's the planet of the ape scenario.
>> I don't I don't believe in in
traversible black wormholes and black
holes and and all this kind of
>> Well, black holes aren't traversible,
but there are wormholes with no
singularities and event horizons that
are traversible.
>> Okay. Yes. But I've I've also heard
weirder stuff involving try somebody
trying to use the information black hole
information paradox to get
>> oh I think that's just uh people have
stretched an analogy too far. So
>> okay but my claim is there's a huge
suite of not really that inventive
ideas.
In other words, we're going to accept
the science that we have as if we can't
do better science and then we're going
to come up with completely implausible
ways of using it and we're going to say
those are the leading candidates. Dr.
Davis, you should push back if you think
traversible wormholes that biological
material can go through is a is a real
feasible thing.
>> You mean biological materials going
through a world?
>> Yeah.
>> I don't see anything that prevents it.
>> Okay.
So, you're going to create a wormhole on
demand to get where you need to go.
You should be able to. That's what my
research showed. There's nothing that I
would think that could stop you other
than that G over C to the 4th power
issue. You you that really gets inverted
when you put it over to the curvature
side of the equation. All right. Then
then the properties of the matter, it's
going to be C to the 4th over G. So,
it's going to be a gigantic number
multiplying the curvature of spaceime
that that matter source creates.
>> So, walk me through how do I get to
Alpha Centuri
by engineering a traversible wormhole?
>> Well, you're going to create the mouth
or the throat. Well, it that's a good
point because even Kip Thorne couldn't
describe it. But the best idea is and
this is Thorn's idea not mine and I
don't endorse it. uh you create a a
mouth right at your departure point in
space. Uh and you're going to need
another spaceship to carry the throat to
the destination point. And that's what
Kip Thorne came with came up with. I'm
thinking when you're creating the
throat, that's where all the physics
occurs anyway. It's not at the mouth,
the exit entrance mouth. It's in the
throat. So when you're creating that
throat
that should automatically
do the the connection the hyperspace
tunnel connection between two points two
distant points earth and Sirius or our
star soul and Sirius as examples or
earth and alpha centtory one of the
planets over there. Um I just know that
it does not give you recipe for
navigating for being able to target your
destination. There are no control
navigational control laws built into
general relativity. All you could do is
build the wormhole and you know you
could do the studies of a geodessic that
goes through it representing either a
photon or a piece of matter and you can
represent that you know it's going to
come out the other side. But how you aim
it and navigate to another star using
it, that's not in generality. You can't
pull that out of you can't pull that
information out unless there's more work
that needs to be done that nobody has
thought of doing.
So
again,
>> but I think you can make a wormhole on
demand if assuming you have the negative
energy density available to shape it.
>> All not one of these proposals excites
me. They they're boring as sin. I'm
sorry to say it. You're talking about
people raised on sci-fi who want to be
scientific. And by wanting to be
scientific, they don't want to go beyond
the two frontier theories that we have.
And they've also said, I don't want to
be uncreative. So the idea is, how do we
come up with a wildly implausible story
based on stuff that is solid? And
at least with some of the other crazy
stuff, I have a feeling at least they're
trying to do new physics so that the
implausibility goes down, but the
speculative nature of the physics goes
up. I think it would be much better to
balance those two. Can we talk about one
of these weird things? Have you looked
at this extended electronamics that no
one in my world has ever heard of?
>> I've seen elements of it. I've seen a p
a paper here and there on that on
extended electronamics.
>> What do you see that as being?
>> I don't know what they're trying to get
at with it. That's my conclusion. I
don't know what they're trying to extend
where it's going.
>> A little context for the audience. This
is um a term that gets thrown around
constantly in UFO discussions. You have
even going back to the '9s, Ben Rich
saying there was some math in Maxwell's
equations that was a little off. You
know, that sort of thing. is this
recurring sort of theme and then you
have people now saying that it's a more
faithful ad adherence to the you know
more expanded Maxwell equations versus
the heavy side kind of simplification of
vector calculus that is extended
electronamics other people say heavy
side is the update that makes the
extended electronamics uh no one seems
to come up with some sort of lrangee and
you've pointed out some real
inconsistencies
uh with the you know gaug varants and
but I believe Hal Puto off who you have
a long work history with and you know is
your long colleague he has some
interesting work in extended
electronamics right
>> never worked on it I I don't know that
Hal has uh the only extended
electronamics I know of is the lrangeian
that you're going to have for high
energy electromagnetic systems and that
would be the borne andfeld lrangeian I
believe it is
>> okay well you're going back to to Yang
Mills theory in the Aelian case
>> it's just the nonlinear version of
Maxwell's equations that you're going to
get out of a lanji that you can
formulate and it will reduce to
Maxwell's equations in the low energy
regime. So extended I don't know what
they're extending that's the thing I've
looked at these and I'm trying to figure
out what suggest
>> here's one thing that I've seen
the Faraday tensor made up of the
electric and magnetic fields is
naturally a degree 2 object. It's not
naturally about vector fields. That only
works if you take a particular slice of
space in spacetime where you shouldn't
do that because that breaks Loren
variance. And then you say, okay, in a
three-dimensional world, every two
tensor is dual to a 3US 2 tensor or a
one tensor or a vector field. And then
you plot out these lines in the E and B
fields uh as if they're vector field.
It's naturally a degree 2 object.
So Maxwell's equations reduce to two
sets of equations. One of which is just
true automatically when it's phrased
geometrically. So if you take da star
some operator
>> based on a the gauge the uh gauge
potential the connect the connection
>> it's really the vector and scalar the
for potential.
>> Yeah. DA star that is the adjint of that
derivative which is itself a derivative
applied to the Faraday tensor brings it
down a degree from two to one
>> right
>> and you say that thing is equal to to
the current J which is a degree one
object.
>> Yeah. But da of FA which takes a degree
2 object one degree up to a degree three
object is guaranteed to be zero for the
same thing that makes the Einstein
uh tensor divergence free. The bianke
identity is an abstract guaranteed
differential equation that comes out of
the geometric construction of curvature.
So you throw one of the um
these two equations away because it's
guaranteed by geometry. So
>> the boundary of the boundary is zero
>> in in essence. So da
of fa equals z represents two of the
four maxwell equations and you throw it
away and then you're left with the
inhomogeneous ones and that's just da
star of fa equals j.
One of the things I've seen in in this
world looks to me like DAR equals A. The
idea is that the gauge potential is a
degree 1 object. And so you take DAR of
of a degree 2 object and that's set
equal to a degree 1 object A.
And that doesn't work to somebody who
thinks in physics terms because on one
side of the equation is what we would
call a gauge invariant object, something
with symmetry,
>> and on the other side there's an object
that picks up an aphine shift, meaning
it isn't gauge invariant.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I see what you're
talking about.
>> So, you can't rotate both sides of the
equation in the same way at once.
Therefore, it's not a legitimate
equation even though they're both degree
line.
>> So, this would extend electronamics is a
10.
>> Well, I don't know because to be
entirely honest the extended look, I
have had to wrap my head around the fact
that we have three bizarre groups of
people trying to do physics at least.
There's a crackpot group which writes in
red crayon and
they just don't they're nowhere close to
the target.
There's a professional community which
has gone somewhat insane but still
remembers how to do physics from first
and second year graduate uh intro
classes even if they're researching toy
models and they've never seen a a quark
or a leptton in their research in the
last decade.
>> And then there's this intermediate group
which I just didn't know existed which I
will call fringe physics.
And fringe physics is in general people
with sort of like a an electrical
engineering background. They know
calculus.
They they know integrals. They're often
technically quite good.
And they get an idea that, you know,
gravitation looks a lot like
electromagnetism. I wonder if I can
contribute something. But they don't
have a sense of like all the things that
can go wrong.
>> Yes,
>> I think I knew about that. So they
tinker but sometimes a tinkerer
can stumble on something. So for
example, you could easily imagine
somebody stumbling on the bomb on the
Areronoff bomb effect which is one of
these hidden features of the world. So
our colleague Sabina Hosenfelder has a
video not too long ago where she took
something that I've only thought about
and heard about as physics folklore. So
there's only three ways to hide new
physics. It's kind of an interesting
idea. The first way is that that can be
so energetic that you can't afford to
see it. So maybe there are particles out
there when we can't create enough energy
to get one of these particles to pop out
of the vacuum.
>> Second thing is is that something is so
weakly coupled you can barely detect it.
So there are lots of nutrinos
everywhere.
>> Yes.
>> But they're so hard to get to interact
with anything that you don't know that
they're there. And then the third thing
is the really interesting one for UFO
land.
Sometimes there's a configuration
that you would never think to put things
in. Like let's get the current up to
this. We'll spin something around. We'll
evacuate a tube. We'll put the following
rare compounds that have these
particular things. And maybe we'll see
an effect that is normally hidden
amplified to the point where it becomes
uh absolutely clear. You know, like the
casemir effect. You needed to know that
you had to put two plates very close
together for something to happen.
>> Yeah.
So that's sort of what we're looking
for. We're looking for is there any new
thing
that we could do that doesn't require
too much energy that's not so weakly
coupled that we can barely detect it but
that can be coaxed to show itself the
way the Aeronoff bomb effect could have
been discovered by an experimentter
passing a beam of electrons around an
ins insulated solenoid.
>> Yeah. and noticing, oh my god, it seems
to be able to detect the current.
>> I believe in a podcast with Anna Brady
Estz, how put off openly discussed uh
this idea of extended electronamics and
him even working with uh Joseph
junctions and uh this idea of vector and
scalar potential. So this idea of
extended electronamics is that the you
know Lorent uh gauge is you know kind of
arbitrarily set to zero and the uh
derivatives of the you know vector and
scalar potentials you know uh should not
you know necessarily equal zero and so
theoretically in terms of implications
for the audience instead of having this
transverse herzian wave which is going
to you know propagate at 1 / r 2 you're
going to get electrons pairing off in
all sorts of situations you're going to
get this kind of rapid attenuation of
the signal uh you might have other sort
of more exotic configurations of you
know parallel like you know uh uh uh
wave propagation in a magnetic field or
not even the existence of an electric of
an you know an E- field or whatever with
a with an electromagnetic wave and I
believe Hal has openly discussed this
with Anna Brady Estz on this you know
former National Science Foundation
director on her podcast.
>> I didn't see the video of that.
>> Okay. Okay. I've never I never knew
there was a video until I think um she
mentioned it to me last year or so.
>> So So you hear you hear a lot of this
stuff in UFO world like you know
extended electronamics and then even
possible experimental inroads towards
that and do do you know anything about
that sort of thing or no? Okay.
>> There are a couple of names that came
out of that podcast uh Dr. Lewis Darro
and Dr. uh Larry Forsley that would be
of interest to Dr.
>> And I know Larry.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Well, so one of the things that that
comes out of my work is that
we may have the gauge potential
that you would put into such an equation
wrong. And the thought is the following.
Every gauge potential, every every
connection
um has a disease when you gauge
uh transform it. And this disease uh if
the gauge transformation is called G it
would look like G inverse DG where D
attacks G. So you differentiate the
transformation and then you use the G
inverse to pull it back to the origin of
the league group.
>> Okay,
>> that term has no reference to the the
connection or the gauge potential A. In
other words, it's G inverse DG.
>> Yeah. But G inverse AG is perfectly uh
gauge invariant if you put it into a
lrronian. So in other words, there's a
part that works beautifully and there's
the part that spoils the party.
>> But the part that spoils the party has
no dependence on A whatsoever.
>> Uhhuh. So if you had two separate
potentials A and B,
you'd get G inverse A G plus G inverse
DG and G inverse B G plus G inverse DG.
So the diseases are the same. You take a
difference between them and the two
diseases kill each other and go away and
you have two terms left over. G inverse
A G and G inverse BG added together. So
one possibility is that even though this
community says a bunch of stuff that
makes me very uncomfortable
is that you could have a tinkering
community that is actually stumbling to
things that everyone else is too
sophisticated to look for. Just the way
when we thought it was the E and the B
fields, nobody was looking for the
holomi effect which is a classical
effect that's discovered quantum
mechanically. So the embarrassment of
finding the Areronoff bomb effect in the
late 50s when we thought we knew
everything there was to know about
electromagnetism
is the great greatest proof we have that
a theory that is supposedly completely
picked over and totally explored may
have basic
things that we have wrong about it well
into our sophisticated old age.
>> Yeah. uh basically up until that point
nobody realized or even gave thought
that the four vector potential was a
physical field.
>> Well, and it isn't in a certain sense.
It's a qu So I give this example that if
you know a professional model, they're
expected to to have a set of things that
are called polaroids. They're just shots
of that model in various standard poses
so that somebody who wants to hire that
model can say this is what this person
looks like without makeup and without
fancy clothes. Right?
>> Mhm.
>> Those different polaroids are what we
would call
uh I don't know they're sort of avatars
of the same underlying human. So if
somebody says I want to hire that person
in three/arter profile, you say well no
you hire the person that's just the
particular shot of the person. The
electromagnetic potential is a an
equivalence class equivalent to give me
all of the polaroids to represent the
one model.
>> Okay. So the big problem comes out when
you single out one polaroid and you say
no no no that's the field because what
that is is that's that's a particular
representation of that field but they're
all representations of the same
underlying field.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> So that's the problem that needed to get
solved.
>> So we don't have anybody in academia
that's pursuing extended electronamics.
>> I don't know.
>> Uh no we do. Um there's a guy named Lee
Hiveley uh in Colorado Springs and he
has a a colleague named Woodside who I
believe is in Australia and then there's
another guy I think uh Strobble or Loel
or something. So there there a couple
there a few of these guys and they've
written a paper about extended
electronamic.
So, another thing that really confuses
me is I saw a bizarre um
video from 1991, which Joe Rogan pointed
me to with this guy Bob Lazar seemingly
talking nonsense.
>> Yes.
>> Do you recall what he says about the
fact that you do this engineering with
gravity wave A and gravity wave B?
>> He No, not entirely. It's been so long.
uh he doesn't know what he's talking
about because he was a radiation health
monitor for uh uh Kimber
Meyer company and they were a logistics
service uh company servicing Los Alamos
National Lab in Area 51. He never had
security clearances. He never graduated
never he dropped out of his first year
of college etc etc. He's not a
physicist.
>> Well, I know that.
>> Yeah, I know. So, I don't remember, but
all I know is he he claims uh element
115 created uh antimatter, which somehow
had something to do with creating
gravitational waves in the in the
propulsion.
>> Did you hear the Jeffrey Epstein tape
with Steve Bannon?
>> No. No.
>> Jeffrey Epstein didn't know what he was
talking about either.
>> No, I'm not familiar.
>> But you can tell that Jeffrey Epstein
was talking to people who knew what they
talk what what they were talking about
and he's this garbled version of this.
Let's assume the same thing for Bob
Lazar. Let's assume that he was
janitorial staff and that he just
happened to be in a sensitive location
and that he's saying something because
it sounds to me like total garbage.
Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. He says this thing which is crazy.
He says there's gravity wave A and
gravity wave B and you most likely think
of gravity as as gravity wave B. That's
the long range stuff with stars and
planets. He says, "But gravity wave A is
different and you associate it with the
strong nuclear force." So, of course,
like I'm just I want to throw up in my
mouth, right?
>> And he says this thing about
QCD, quantum chromodnamics of the strong
nuclear force is is what gravity wave A
is all about. And so the idea is going
to be that somehow if you could actually
understand that what was going on in QCD
had to do with gravity, you would
understand that that's the source of
strength with the ability to actually do
something with space and time. So seems
totally stupid, but let me just point
out the following thing.
There are only two lrangeians or actions
that I know of that give an oiler lrange
equation
with the curvature appearing without a
derivative in front of it. One of them
is the Einstein Hilbert action which
when differentiated
gives you the reachi curvature minus the
scalar curvature over two times the
metric. The other one is a thing called
the churn simons function. Yeah, it's
been
>> churn Simon's action.
>> Yeah,
>> the churn Simon's action comes from
something called the transgression of
the pontryan class in the churn
representation.
>> Yeah,
>> that is part of QCD.
In other words, the normal Yang Mills
lrangeian we would represent as F inner
product F norm square of F. F is the
field strength
>> from the topology of uh uh what is
geometry and topology for physics and I
can't remember who the author of that
book was but I've seen that
>> but in only in dimension four you can
form a different quantity where you take
f inner
star f
>> mhm
>> where star is the hodge star or
complimentarity operator
>> and that thing
generates the pontreagen class which
when transgressed gives you the churn
Simons which gives you the lrangeian
that is closest to general relativity.
>> Interesting. Uh I haven't seen that.
>> Well, because nobody's talked about it
ever.
>> Okay, that's
>> so this is the I think this is the first
time I'm I'm ever mentioning it in
public. So the thought that I had was
assume that Bob Lazar is an unreliable
narrator and he was hanging around water
coolers and he was hearing crazy stuff
and that it's a mix of and
something.
Is it possible,
Eric, that what he's talking about is
that the theta term from QCD
is what he's calling stupidly gravity
wave A, which no person I've ever heard
of has ever used that terminology.
>> I wouldn't think he'd be consciously
aware of that.
I don't know if it's possible. It's too
I I can't rely on anything he says
because of his history.
>> Dr. Davis, just to play devil's advocate
with Bob Lazar, you were saying there's
this long-standing UFO legacy crash
retrieval program. You have one guy
who's come out publicly and has not
changed his story since ' 89. We didn't
really know too much about the existence
of Area 51. Definitely not S4.
>> He's never been there.
>> But how would he know about, you know,
Janet Airlines flight? and he worked at
the uh unclassified logistic support
facility over on McCarron uh over on
Sunset Boulevard next to uh not Sunset
Boulevard, Sunset Drive next to McCarron
Airport. There's a row of light
industrial buildings along Sun uh Sunset
Road
>> and um McCarron is right across the
street. So Kimber Kimber Meyer was
there. EG&G Special Projects was like
next door. So he didn't go because he
didn't have clearances. His job was just
a radiation health badge monitor. So
people that get on the Janet flight to
go to Area 51, he gives them their
radiation badges. When they come home
from work, they get off that Janet
flight, they got to give them back, give
those badges back to him. And his job is
to check those badges every day to make
sure that they're
>> okay. But he's not a theoretical
physicist, but he does have engineering
chops. Like he runs currently United
Nuclear. He literally put a jet engine
on the tobacco Honda. I know he's just a
tinkerer. He's a hobbyist. He's also
been twice convicted of felonies
including
>> this isn't guys in that case.
>> I have no interest in Bob Lazar the
person. The key question is if he was
proximate to information that he garbled
is it possible
>> could it be possible
>> to take the garbled message and
associate QCD with two sectors a Yang
Mills sector and a Pontriogen sector.
And that the churn vape representation
of the pontreagan sector inside of QCD
with associated with the theta term can
lead to something which has Einstein
like properties which is that the
differential
>> remarkable
>> that would be remarkable right
>> absolutely remarkable this vacuum energy
stupendous
>> so the thing that I'm so let's get into
vacuum energy and zero point what the
source of energy is for all of these
things I'm very turned off by certain
attempts to mine
Like if you look at the Heisenberg
uncertainty relations, one of the great
innovations in our time is that they've
been associated to the simplectic form
on phase space in ordinarily classical
Hamiltonian dynamics. In other words,
you take the space of configurations of
a mug on a table. Then you add
the momenta. So that doubles the space
its size to get go from configuration
space to phase space, position to
position and momentum.
>> Right?
>> On that space there's a guaranteed
object called the simplectic form that
comes just out of the math.
The big innovation was to say, you know,
that thing is actually the at the base
of a different different structure
called a line bundle and it's the
curvature tensor for this line bundle
with a connection whose sections form
the Hilbert space in quant in
quantization effectively in a certain
sense.
>> You think fiber bundle?
>> Well, yeah, it's a line bundle. Exactly.
that that line bundle its L2 sections
properly taken polarized there's a whole
rigomear roll
>> right
>> sort of self-quantiz the manifold in
other words
>> that the the classical mechanics
>> leads naturally to the quantum theory
when you realize it's not an isolated
degree 2 object but a degree 2 object
that comes as the curvature of something
else that we had not thought to study if
you try to if that's the source of the
Heisenberg uncertainty relations. That's
a curvature you can't get rid of.
So if you try to mine it, I don't really
see how you extract
um from something that can't be
lessened. On the other hand, were you to
try to tap into the dark energy, if that
is in fact a ve a vacuum expectation
value rather than a hard constant,
could that be used as a ondemand power
source?
>> Sure could be.
you work on that at all?
>> No, but I looked at people who sent me
their ruminations on that idea and it
looked pretty intelligent, but it wasn't
very well-developed in my opinion. So, I
think that would be a great direction to
go and I like where you're going here.
>> I'm just trying to be constructive. Let
me let me try another one.
>> I like where you're going. I think you
pointed out some stuff I'm not aware of
other than the dark energy aspect which
I'm already aware of. Um, which need to
be followed up on. Imagine for the
moment that you embed what we currently
call spacetime
>> in its space of all pointwise Lorencian
metrics. So every way you could possibly
have of measuring length and angle
through a series of three rulers, one
watch and six protractors. Okay,
>> that's a 14-dimensional object that I
work with on a daily basis that I call
the observers. We don't have to get too
far into this, but the point that I want
to make is the following.
There are ways of traveling through time
and and space. And I want to say also
that time really should always be times
because the number of actual temporal
dimensions we currently think is one,
but it doesn't need to be one.
>> I agree.
>> Okay.
We talk a lot about entanglement. We
talk a lot about wormholes. We don't
talk about pinch to zoom.
>> We don't talk about what?
>> Pinch to zoom. Imagine that you pointed
at a star that you wanted to visit and
imagine that you could find some way of
traveling in 10 transverse dimensions.
>> Okay?
>> Where what you're doing is growing the
ruler in the direction between you and
that star.
>> Now once the ruler says one foot,
you need the energy to walk one foot,
right?
>> Not the energy to walk four light years,
>> right?
And then you have to put the ruler back.
So you have to shrink the ruler to grow
the distance after you've grown the
ruler to shrink the distance. Okay?
>> So the idea is that this is something
like pinch to zoom which doesn't work on
an ordinary table. But if this was a
smart table, it would be a what's called
a multi-touch gesture.
Have you thought about whether
multi-touch gestures like pinch to zoom
or another one that I call shear to tilt
might be built into the object that we
confuse for spacetime?
>> It sounds plausible. I like that. Um
I've seen hints of something like that
in some books I've read back in the '9s.
Uh very small hints of it and uh I
thought there was something to it that I
just didn't follow up on. Um yeah, I
would say that makes sense. That makes
sense to me. That
Yeah,
that's very interesting idea.
>> Do you think much about dark chemistry?
>> About which?
>> Dark chemistry.
>> Like chemistry with dark matter?
>> No, I don't.
>> I see.
>> I haven't seen anybody
use that phrase before.
supposedly dark matter doesn't interact
with uh regular matter uh especially at
the electromagnetic force level. So
>> well that's what we mean largely by dark
right that
>> yeah like because you can't see it
there's no luminosity involved
>> no exchange of photons that we can
visibly see and collect a spectrum for.
>> Well we have we we sort of have three
long range carriers. We have light we
have gravity and we have nutrinos
>> right
>> uh that we know about. But let me ask
you about a weird phrase that I keep
hearing that I don't understand. I keep
hearing about interdimensional beings
which causes me to want to throw up in
my mouth. People uh I think that's
colloquial.
>> Do you know what this is?
>> Interdimensional means you're going
between dimensions. So I don't
understand the word interdimensional
beings. I think it's really beings that
could trans transverse other dimensions
or traverse other dimension. Does it
mean something technical being that's
interdimensional? Again, let's
>> we move through three spatial
dimensions. So that makes us
interdimensional already. Okay. And we
move through time allegedly in one
direction.
>> So David Crush I believe used this
phrase in a hearing and they talked
about holography.
>> Yeah. Dave's not a physicist. That's
>> I understand that. So what I'm trying to
look again the point isn't to say
whether somebody knows what they're
talking about but to say assume that
somebody does assume that the plumber
comes to you and says wow I was just out
at some crazy base and I don't even know
what these words mean but here's what I
heard right so very often I'm just
trying to I'm not I don't care
>> yeah I think he's heard that from his
briefings given to from the briefings
given to him on the crash retrieval
program I just you know he can't tell me
that level of information at the
classified level cuz I'm not cleared for
it. So he can verbally on a superficial
level
discuss it in the open but I don't know
what he if he's it sounds like he's
garbling stuff at times. So
>> and if we had an adversary that was
aware of multiple temporal dimensions
where we're only aware of one. So we
have an arrow of time and they would
have
>> multiple
>> like a right-hand rule of time. be it
have you thought much about the threat
assessment as to what capabilities a
>> nobody does threat assessments like that
but I would say that is something worth
worth having a threat assessment done on
>> and have you
are you aware of reports that we are
being I wouldn't say menaced but
>> monitored
made to know that we do not control our
space.
>> Yes.
>> Do you find that highly credible?
>> What percentage?
>> 100. Because it was definitive. It was
that was told to me definitively, not
speculatively. It was we know this to be
true.
>> So, I've been told the same thing by
multiple parties who are not related.
All of whom seem like credible people.
Yet, nobody seems to have direct
firsthand
>> Yeah.
Even I can't get into that level. I
mean, Harry Reid tried to get a special
access program and he failed because
Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn
denied it. And that was because Harry
Reid did it the wrong way. He did it the
wrong way and that's why it got denied
if we did it the proper way, which I'm
trained on in the security apparatus.
Uh, we would have been more successful.
>> So, do you remember Dick Fineman's book
of stories like surely you're joking and
what do you care what other people
think? Oh yeah, it's been long time
since.
>> Do you remember a story called Any
Questions in which he goes to Buffalo,
New York because as a physics professor
at Cornell, he has to teach in an
aerospace company.
>> Yeah, vaguely. I vaguely
>> he gets beat up or something in a in a
washroom or Yeah.
>> over a girl. I forget what.
>> Do you have a sense what Richard Fineman
was doing with all of this? because he
also has another weird story where he's
got patents for sub nuclear submarines,
nuclear planes, nuclear shopping, I
don't know what uh are aerospace
companies something that we don't
understand where people actually did
basic physics research, not material
science, not something that's plane or
rocket or drone adjacent, but where
people were doing actual
frontier research. arch in fundamental
physics.
>> No, they wouldn't do that. Not in that
not in that uh
>> so they wouldn't use it as a shell.
>> No, they do applied physics research.
They're they're developing technical
solutions to the government customer's
request to to answer the government
customer's need for a solution to some
problem. So it does it go to fundamental
physics like can should we worry about
these type of quirks versus those type
of quirks? No, no, no. They're looking
at a physics that could be applied to
the engineering of a technological
solution for the government customer.
That's what the aerospace industry does.
Oh, I understand what it's supposed to
do. What I'm trying to say is, is it a
system of containers
and you can put anything in a container?
I mean, in other words, you could
imagine that if a container was secure,
you could put a a drug laundering, you
know, moneyaundering drug operation
inside of it, and we wouldn't think, oh,
that's what you'd expect to find. That's
right. Yeah.
>> That it's like something crawled into
that shell. My question is, is it
possible that theoretical physics was
sort of relocated
into aerospace companies
because this is a
>> I wouldn't say no to that. That's
possible.
That's possible. Uh when we spoke to Hal
put off he said definitively he said you
know um I don't not sure about
fundamental physics being tied up in
aerospace corporations but he goes
topological physics like probably and he
said it it it would seem to me that
physics generally is held in these
aerospace uh companies and uh you know
that was very it made your sort of blood
boil as it should.
>> I worked for the aerospace corporation
for four and a half years. I was one of
only
>> a dozen or so physicists with PhDs
>> in the company,000
employees.
>> Which location?
>> Uh I was at Huntsville, Alabama.
>> Okay.
>> Because I was supporting this NASA space
nuclear propulsion program office. So uh
I was only one of maybe a dozen, maybe
two. I don't think it was more than two
but definitely within two dozen PhD
physicists in the whole country in the
whole company and I'll have to tell you
that not a single one of few of us were
doing any physics we were doing
engineering work
>> and how many of you were trained in
front trained in frontier theory
>> frontier theory what do you mean
>> standard model in GR
>> oh I how far back from the front lines
were you guys
>> I knew those guys and none of them were
some of them were trained in Astro
dynamics. So, they know general
relativity and Newtonian mechanics. Uh,
I'm the only one I know of who's been
trained on the standard model in GR. I
don't I didn't know any of those other
guys that were there's one guy at Blue
Origin
>> who went to my university, got his PhD
in general relativity theory, University
of Arizona,
>> Tucson years after I got my doctorate
and he wor and he's working as an
engineer at Blue Origin.
>> Okay, last question. I can't wrap my
head around this. If I was facing an
incursion in my airspace claiming
craft that defy the laws of physics and
I didn't have a single top physicist
on my team, I would expect to be fired
instantly.
>> Oh, sure. But that's not how they think.
They don't think in terms of that.
They're thinking in terms of their
bottom line. And their bottom line will
not involve a theoretical physicist.
They might have
>> Sorry. Sorry. What? You have craft. The
claim is you have
>> I know they're engineers.
>> Okay. But if you
>> they're not thinking in terms of
fundamental physics or something beyond
the standard model or something beyond
generality. They're thinking
>> how are they doing on this project
decades in the supposed project? How are
they doing on it?
>> What's their level of success?
>> All I know is as of my knowledge
>> if you're failing at something
>> Yeah. They they have
>> that requires new physics. You say defy
the laws of physics. We have we can't
make progress and we have no physicist.
Yes, because they don't.
>> David, this can't Eric, this can't this
can't add up. It's it's a twoline proof.
It defies the laws of physics. We
haven't made progress. We have no
physicists.
>> Okay,
>> if something defies the laws of physics,
who do you call? I I know you ask any of
us, any of us, write down 15 names of
who you call if you had a craft that
defied the laws of physics. Wait a
second. 12 of those names, 10 of those
names would be the same on everybody's
list.
>> Okay.
the the the final thing I would say is
if Halputoff was telling us that some
physics has held whether it's even if
it's just experimental physics you have
a bunch of people over the last 70 years
the foremost in my mind Towns and Brown
and you know this uh Ningly at
University of Alabama Huntsville saying
that they're getting little weight
reduction effects gravitational
shielding
>> that's wrong they didn't they were they
were incompetent there is no weight
reduction
>> so simultaneously how's thing of being
two chapters in my book on the Towns and
Brown effect.
>> But there's the lead electrostatic
scientist from NASA at Cape Kennedy just
left to start a private propellantless
propulsion company and he says it's
derivative of Towns and Brown's effect.
>> Those older papers and that older
subject matter um is probably valid for
most of the point for most you know it's
unfair to say that it's not. However,
without a theory back then to describe
it, it was hard for them to
miniaturaturize it, to optimize it, all
of those things you want to do to to
make it a useful force.
>> His name is Charles Buer
>> talking science
>> even though he's the electrostatics.
Yeah.
>> And then the the physics chair um who is
the lead of Ning Le's department left to
join her company, Larry Smalling.
>> Yeah. But she was wrong and so was he.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. and and they made off with
$400,000 in army research lab money and
didn't produce a producible for it. They
didn't deliver anything for that money.
>> So the topological physics effect
>> you talked to Travis Taylor he knew all
of them. He knew England.
>> So so the topological
>> rotten terrible physicist. So the so the
physics that are held in private
aerospace, we just have to sort of guess
like we there's there's no sense of what
any of this stuff is, but they're also
not putting any theoretical physicists,
you know, like Eric's colleagues on any
of this stuff. Like it it just feels
sort of
>> here's the thing. The government is
going to tell the aerospace company we
Okay, this is hypothe hypothetical, but
this is how it works according to my two
industry sources.
Okay, the government says, "Here's the
craft.
We want to know how it works." The
industry contractors say, "Okay, and
they think in terms of engineering.
>> We're going to we're not they're not
going to do fundamental physics. They're
not they might have experimental
physics. It's not out of the realm to
have an experimental physicist working
there, but they're not theoretical guys.
So, they'll have to know some theory,
but they're mostly experiment."
>> Hang on. Hang on. So, so they get the
tasking that they've got to take apart a
craft and they've got to figure out how
it's made and how it's worked. That how
it works. That's it. That's the tasking.
So, that leaves out any not need for a
theoretical physicist. They don't know
that
>> they would agree. Wait, wait. That that
made absolutely zero sense.
>> That's how they operate. That's
>> No, no, no. You said bec but because of
that that's why they don't no you
absolutely need a theoretical physicist
if you're going to take apart a device.
>> I don't disagree but that's how they
operate. That's what the program manager
and the government says. So the program
manager in the company's going to say
okay here's our solution to that
problem. So here's our bid. They get a
soul source contract. Uh no there's no
bid. It's the soul source contract. So
they get the soul source contract and
they've already laid out what the
tasking is to be done on that contract.
And the tasking is to be done that needs
to be done is the engineering to take
this thing apart piece by piece, reverse
engineer it, put it back together again
and try to figure out if they can make
it work or not and understand how that
happens. And uh that's all they do. They
don't have tasking to hire a theoretical
physicist to sit there and start
thinking about the standard model beyond
the standard model or anything. They
don't go there. They don't go there.
These are engineering companies. They're
not universities. And they don't even
aren't even allowed to talk to
universities about this because of the
compartmentalization is horrible.
>> Sorry. If if an iPhone fell into the
into the hands of a villager
uh in some far-flung uh developing
country, the odds of a cobbler or a
carpenter figuring out how an iPhone
worked is negligible.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay.
>> So, the same thing is true on your
engineering. I mean, look, the Manhattan
project was an engineering project.
There was a deliverable. It was a
device.
>> The argument to have physicist
>> for both projects. You're not giving me
any understanding of why there were
physicists in one and not the other.
Wouldn't the same even if you had a
wrong
>> Sorry. It just doesn't make sense,
Derek. That's just what all the evidence
goes down to. Um comes down to I should
say it's I I haven't met well I asked my
sort my senior VP said oh we didn't have
any physicists. They had Bernie Hush
working in that company. He is a
physicist. He's an astrophysicist. He
was a Max Plunk Institute fellow. He was
a fellow of that company and he did
astrophysics work because that company
built spacecraft for NASA. But an
alternate hypothesis is that this is a
dummy program masking something. And the
last thing that you would want ever on
such a program is a physicist. because
the physicist is going to tear right
through this thing and say
there is no Bfield Brown effect here.
Let me show you you know whatever. So my
my my my claim is
>> that avoidance
of
physicists might be necessary to keep a
dummy program going just the way the
presence of physicists was necessary to
get a deliverable for Hiroshima and
Nagasaki.
>> Interesting. Okay. I I just on another
note, the five people I knew of at that
one legacy company,
>> two of whom I met with and dined with
and met and one of whom I met with
routinely through the OSAP and after uh
>> so the woman was a mathematician but she
worked as as a chief of security.
There we go. The other one was a
material scientist. Okay, that's a for
that's a discipline in engineering. The
other three were engineers. One of them
was involved with the development of the
F-17 fighter and I don't know what the
other guys roles were, but they were all
engineers. That's what they were
described to me. And I said, "No
physicists." He said, "No, not really."
>> It's insane. Both of you guys, what do
you hope for the next year or two of
disclosure? I mean, I think it's clear
that you think the the brain dead way in
which this is run without theoretical
physicist. I would like I would like to
meet adults on this project who are not
grooved into thinking that we can just
repeat things that never made any sense
into the future as if they make sense.
The idea that we are being visited um by
crafts that dominate our airspace, that
we cannot understand, do not know their
origin, that defy the laws of physics,
and we avoid the one specialty that
could help us at all costs, and that
this makes sense to anyone is is a fairy
tale that should not be I I think that a
mentally golden retriever
should not repeat this fair.
>> Doc Dr. Davis, what what do you hope for
over the next few years? Well, I'm I'm
actually uh what's the word? I'm
don't want to say I'm uh in uh I'm
looking for a negative term here and
it's I'm I'm not enthusiast. Well, it's
not enthusiastic. That's not the word. I
think the presidential emergency action
directives are so strict. They were
instituted in the White House admin uh
in the Eisenhower White House
administration. So Eisenhower instituted
that and that's been carried forward on
many different topics but specifically
Jim Seivan and I know that they were
instituted for this topic that we've
been discussing. So I I uh am not hope I
guess that's the word I'm looking for.
I'm not hopeful that there will be
meaningful disclosure uh because of the
presidential emergency action directives
and I'm also not hopeful because I don't
think that this topic has risen to a
level of urgency in the White House as
the Epstein files have and the
retribution that Trump wants to execute
against his political enemies. Uh those
are those are at the top and he's got
his economic agenda. He's got his
foreign policy agenda, tariffs and all
that disclosure of UAPs at this level.
It's just not rising to the top.
>> That's your prognosis. But your hope is
that we get full transparency on this
issue outside national security and I
>> could get the keys to the door with how
and we can walk in and we can talk to
people and say where the are your
physicists and uh or we can say we're
going to volunteer our time or you can
pay us to work for you. Uh I would love
for both of us with Hal and some others
to be able to go in and take a look at
the hardware, see it ourselves. I've
I've I've heard physical descriptions
from Jim Latsky um
>> who said that he breached the hole and
walked inside of a UFO.
>> Yeah.
>> And you believe him?
>> Oh, yeah. Because there's no reason not
to.
>> You told us because you were allowed to
tell us that our government has a UFO in
its possession and has been able to
access the inside of it, right?
>> Yes. I mean, when you work with people
like that, we know that we're not
trained to lie and make up just
for the sake of lying and making up
Uh, no, we are people with
clearances. We are responsible people.
Jim Lowsky was a uh missiles engineer, I
believe he was. Uh, so, and there are
other missiles engineers I knew who
worked at the DIA back in the 80s and
no, back in Yeah. 80s, 90s, and 2000s
until they retired. So, there's a lot of
engineers in the DIA. Not too many
physicists that I ever ran across. So
anyway, it'd be nice. But so my point is
Jim Lowsky wouldn't say that just just
to pull it out of the air and throw
people off. He's telling you the truth.
>> That was during his time.
>> This is exactly the truth and this is
exactly what he experienced working at
the DIA at some point. Uh I don't know
whether this happened during the OSAP
because he certainly didn't tell us. All
of us in the OSAP, Keller, Bigalow,
Puty, myself, we never heard this come
from Mikowski. Was this at Locked or was
when he stepped?
>> No, no, I don't know where it was. It's
just that
>> you don't know where he stepped.
>> You never He didn't say in his book. I
don't know if you've read the book or
not.
>> I haven't read the book.
>> Okay. So, he didn't say where he went
into that craft or who had it,
>> but I have a general idea based on
conversations I've had with Jay
Stratton. But the point being is that he
was able to get it, touch it. I also
know a four-star general from the
Clinton administration who was able to
go there, use his authority, his power
uh to go see the program and get inside,
talk to the program uh employees and
leadership, touch the crowd, look inside
the crowd. So that's two. And then
there's Admiral Wilson who said, "I
tried to get in the program. I met the
program manager, the corporate security
chief, the legal counsel, and the chief
scientist, and they told me after a lot
of resistance and arguing, they finally
said, "This is what you're looking for.
It is a crash retrieval, nine human
intelligence, non-human technology,
off-world, but we can't let you in
because you don't have a need to know
beyond that." Yeah.
>> You know, it's like, oh, but that's how
it works. I mean, that really does work
that way. The head of the NRO doesn't
know what the hell a lot of the stuff
that's going on beneath him because
they're wooaps or saps or hidden SCIs.
He He doesn't have a need to know unless
there's a reason that he has to and then
they have to brief him.
>> On that mind-blowing but also baffling
note. Uh and I I'm glad we ended in a
sort of you know collegial way. We share
mutual hope that we can we can you know
bash down the door. But I love this
guy's mind. I love the way he was going
in the last hour or so. Yeah,
>> this is uh this has really opened my
mind a lot more my eyes on some things I
want to start looking at now. Thank you
for that.
>> Thanks, Doc.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> That was an interesting conversation,
>> wasn't it?
>> Yeah. What's your I don't know. Do you
have kind of a gestalt sense coming away
from that as far as an update where you
were before the conversation uh where
you are now? So, first of all, it's
interesting to see somebody who believes
in aliens and and and craft in some deep
level and doesn't believe in going
beyond the theories that are
uh blessed with holy water by the
physics community. And so,
you know, I take general relativity and
standard model quite seriously, but he
takes it almost as a constraint.
So I think one of the things I didn't
understand is that the physics output is
rec seems almost recreational and it
seems like what is the closest you could
get to science fiction using known
science
>> right?
>> Yeah. And the idea is that it's all
extremely
implausible
vague scenario like if we could come up
with huge amounts of matter and energy
then we could do this uh alubiary
space-time solution or um you know maybe
we could engineer an Einstein Rosen
bridge you know and like again I I heard
somebody say this thing about um maybe
the black hole information paradox is a
key that because it doesn't fully make
sense that that's where the technology
is and you should use quantum gravity as
a guide. Maybe you go into a black hole
and you somehow get shot out some some
someplace at a speed that you couldn't
imagine otherwise. Whatever these things
are,
this is garbage. I hate to say it that
way, but it's not that he's
he maybe he's doing the best that you
can do assuming general relativity and
the standard model trying to reproduce
something that clearly goes beyond it if
it exists at all. Another thing is he
said I was sort of surprised that he
wasn't nearly as read in
at a primary level. Um so that he's able
to talk because
he didn't actually make primary contact
with this.
>> Well, that's the thing we were just
commenting on off camera which is like
this funny dynamic of everybody seems to
be circling around this program and
nobody seems to be in the program. It's
a little like the Epstein list or
something. Yeah.
>> Which is not at all, you know, we'll
stop the analogy there, but it is this
weird thing where it's like, you know,
uh, no one no one no one's gone to the
island, but like, you know, or not me
rather, but everybody else has or
whatever, and these are everybody's
demonic or whatever. And in in this
case, it's this weird thing where
everybody's this Mr. Smith goes to
Washington character who stumbled into
this in this sort of hapless way. uh and
they have no idea how the thing actually
sort of functions and works and that
allows them to talk about it
>> or even if there's a thing as described
at all. I mean, I'm convinced that
there's a thing
>> and it has a boundary and it has some
structure and there's some money in it,
whatever.
But I don't know that what's inside that
container is what is indicated on its
surface to the extent that anyone can
even see the boundary.
>> Yeah. Well, that's a question is like,
you know, does the tip of the iceberg
look like is it actually an iceberg? And
are we looking at a tip of the iceberg
where you can say uh we have a crash
retrieval reverse engineering program,
but that's actually some sort of
intelligence slight of hand and in fact
the body uh or a structure that is
underneath, you know, submerged in the
water is obfiscated and that changes
everything.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's like you have a kelp
forest which has a top which looks like
an iceberg,
>> you know, something like that. And so
>> I was trying to figure out the right
analogy.
>> Well, there isn't a good one.
>> There isn't a good one.
>> Yeah.
>> And you have unreliable narrators to
contend with as well. And you have
unprepared ontologies to contend with as
well. So you have these voices giving
you information. You are Eric Davis in
this situation. You have these witnesses
or these sources giving you information,
but they are a filter unto themselves.
They're an ontology filter and they're a
reliability filter. How much can you
totally bank on what they're saying and
use it to build a model for whatever is
hiding in this boundary?
So one of the questions that we we were
discussing is if you believe in the
legacy program and I think all three of
us are in a position where we've talked
to too many different people with
different backgrounds that are talking
about a something in common.
And you know, in my worst fear, it's the
jackaloupe where everybody sort of
believes the jackalopes are real. Um,
because there's an industry around a
myth. Um,
but assuming this thing is real, because
I can't imagine how you would fake it.
What is real is a program with a
boundary.
So there's something where you're inside
the program and there's something where
you're outside the program and people
have to go back in and out unless you
imagine that there's a secret facility
which you enter once and you never leave
just physically.
This means almost certainly this thing
is hidden in plain sight. I don't mean
to say that there may not be deep
underground facilities on our bases. I
don't mean to say that but people have
to go home.
>> Right.
And
you have to have plumbers
and you have to have housekeeping staff.
I don't understand
how this thing exists. Well, on that
note, you attempted at some
instantiation of at least the
theoretical physics component of the
whatever we calling that this UAP legacy
program
>> at Renaissance Technologies. And I
thought it was interesting that uh in
2022 NASA had this, you know, UFO review
panel.
>> 16 researchers will spend the next 9
months studying the UFOs. They will use
unclassified data in their research and
release a report to the public next
year. Now, this follows the Pentagon's
announcement in July that it would
create an office to track reports of
UAPs or UFOs and they were seeing, you
know, if there's anything to all of this
stuff and they were they were looking
into it in an official capacity. And the
person overseeing that panel is this
guy, David Spurggle. Of course, Jim
Simon started Renaissance Technologies
and Spurgle was head of his foundation.
So I find that to be very interesting
overlap.
>> So there's this concept in Washington of
steady hands
and steady hands. I never really found
all the different meanings for it, but
one meaning for it was who can we trust
when the pressure gets insanely high to
do what we expect needs to be done,
which may involve obfuscating, lying,
evading,
pitifying, all of the things that don't
have to do with disclosure.
The world of steady hands is often a
very small world. So they reuse the
same. You'll notice that the same people
in Washington DC some somehow show up on
eight different issues. They're like
because the government knows that they
can trust that person in a crisis not to
not to buckle. They've sort of given
their life for the team.
>> Would Fouchy be sort of analogous?
>> Sure. Right. the idea that you're going
to stand up to Rand Paul in an open
hearing and you're not going to call
your call for your mommy and you're not
going to say, "Okay, I admit it. There
was a whole thing and we screwed up and
I feel terrible." Whatever.
And so maybe the idea is we're dealing
with the steady hands phenomena
>> that you need people to deny
the obvious. You need people to spend
credibility and there are very few
people who want to do that job.
>> One other connection I was thinking of
speaking of you know the intersection
between
uh institutions that are well respected
that nobody can deny have power in the
country like the Jasons which uh you
know they meet in Santa Barbara. It's
the elite of the elite when it comes to
uh military-industrial complex and
specifically figuring out kind of it's
frontier physics, but it's also
weaponization
uh uh uh you know um and
so you have that committee that you
brought up and then you have the UFO
world which seems kind of more quacky on
the face of it and you have this guy Ron
Pandalfi who seems to be a part of the
Jason advisory committee um but also
seems to show up in UFO world
constantly.
And so I think it's really interesting
as a heristic to look at the
intersection between quacky UFO world
and more institutional undeniable
military-industrial complex.
Well, that was why the the golden age of
general relativity was such an important
uh thing to mine because that was the
last major moment
where the lunatic quacks and the super
respectable people were seeing each
other after hours for cocktails,
right? And
you know there's a different version of
this maybe where um David Kaiser I think
wrote this book how the hippie saved
physics about what gets done at eelin
you know with entanglement and
uh bell inequalities and all that kind
of stuff. So I think that there's this
weird way in which the quack world
and the respectable world are are always
intermingled and we don't really admit
to this. Uh I' I've called the passion
for let's say string theoretic physics
and other official uh mass delusions
karkarks which is crank spelled
backwards. A kark is a crank inside of
the institutions
who would be ridiculed for their belief
structure but for the fact that they are
upholding the institution.
Right? And so we have a and by the way
the mass delusion isn't that string
theory might be interesting. It's that
42 years in you're still not seeing this
what do we have wrong? Does anyone else
have an idea? There is no conference
that brings together the critics and the
proponents to try to get to ground
truth.
>> Well, you have an idea about you mean
you mentioned this in the interview. You
said, you know, we have been beating
Einstein to death trying to kind of
quantize gravity. Uh you have an idea
about gauging gravity and how, you know,
maybe we we fell into the kind of
quantum gravity culde-sac when we could
have thought about gravity in this other
context. Well, so this this is a it's a
very strange point. Um, so I just turned
60 and
>> happy birthday.
>> Well, thank you very much. What I
realize about myself is that I am the
youngest person
to see the transition between old style
physics and the string physics in terms
of the community. So I got to college in
1982. I started going to seminars
essentially immediately which was
unusual and I was 16 at the time. So
that was my claim to saying that that's
why I'm the youngest. Things change in '
84. So there's really only 82 83 and I
happened by complete accident to be at
the first lecture of Ed Whitten on
string theory at the University of
Pennsylvania in 1983
which I didn't know until very recently
that that my memory actually is because
I fell by accident into the beginning.
They changed the entire culture of
theoretical physics and there's nothing
they can do to hide it. If you go back
to research articles before
uh 1984, you see an entirely different
culture of inquiry as to what are the
problems of physics? What might we try
to do to solve them?
and quantum gravity was just thrust down
everybody's throat as the holy grail
from 1984 to87 and by the time of ' 87
everybody had accepted this. So what you
did is you retconed a story where nobody
mentions the phrase quantum gravity
until 1972.
And you say well that's always been the
holy grail ever since uh gravity in
general relativity in 1915 and the
quantum let's say by 1928 when you have
quantum electronamics were both realized
to have this kind of incompatibility.
So if the incompatibility between the
two is real but it's not really quantum
gravity, what is it?
So what I said was
most people don't realize that due to
work of Jim Simons and Cen Yang which
got written up as Wooyang as if Simons
was woo
um we know that underneath the standard
model is a classical geometric structure
and we don't talk about the classical
differential geometric nature of the
standard model
um and And that that is the subject of
the Wuyang dictionary. So that
unearthing of a geometric origin for the
particles and fields that are not
gravity but all the all the quantum
fields
uh is a very important clue that that
geometry has a property which is that it
is gauged which means that you can keep
yourself from being fooled that many
different versions you know that problem
with the elephant with the blind men
going around and it's all one elephant
And the blind men aren't wandering
around the elephant stupidly. They're
just staying in one place. So a gauge
orbit would be let's get all of the
information from all of these people and
decide that it's one elephant and
they're just looking at it from
different perspectives.
So it's kind of a unity of knowledge
thing. General relativity can't be
gauged.
Now there's a lie that says well that
it's a type of gauge theory because
there's a different kind of symmetry
which has nothing to do with gauging
called uh general coordinate invariance
or diffmorphism invariance. So we make
up a story to pretend that Einstein's
theory can be gauged and it can't. And
so now you have this weird question. Why
did Ed Whitten tell us that the
incompatibility between this
the standard model and general
relativity was that one was fully
quantum and the other never quite grew
up and that we had to grow up general
relativity.
>> So general relativity and the standard
model have two separate attributes.
Einstein could do two things that the
standard model cannot. He these things
are called contraction where you take
two indices on either side of a
separating barrier called a tensor
product and you get them to mate uh and
pair off.
So he contracted the remanian curvature
to get the reachi curvature. He
contracted that to get scalar curvature.
He spun the scalar curvature around 180
degrees. Plugged it back into the
formula and got rid of this vile
curvature. Whatever that operation was
that was the central idea of general
relativity.
There is no ability to take the full
curvature tensors that occur in the
standard model and break them up into
components.
You can't do this contraction gate. And
the other thing Einstein had that the
standard model didn't is that there's a
central reference object called the
levichevida connection and there's no
analog for that as in the connections
that give us photons and W and Z
particles and gluons.
So in the case of the standard model,
you've got if if my arm here is
spacetime and this is the data of the
particles, the data of the particles can
move around without moving spaceime.
In general relativity,
if you think about this as the xy plane,
moving the x-axis affects the y axis.
Okay,
the incompatibility between the
advantages of those two different
pictures, gauge equivalence in the case
of the standard model and contraction
and a specified levy Jita connection
that difference
gives two sets of advantages to two
different theories. Now my work the
reason it's called geometric unity
nobody ever asks that question really is
that I said are there any places where
you get to use the advantages of both
systems
and the answer turns out to be well
certainly in general it won't work
but for some completely absurdly narrow
class of theories you get all the
benefits of both system and then you
check the particle table of the standard
model and you're exactly in that freak
class.
>> So like how how can you not devote your
life to that fact? I just don't even
understand it. Um, so that thing is
having to do with the fact that we
didn't gauge
gravity properly. And there's old work
about this with Einstein and Cartan,
with McDow and Mansuri,
with a bunch of other people who've had
versions of this idea,
but it all got blown away by quantum
gravity.
>> Do you think that was by design or
emergent?
It sounds insane to say by design, but
let me give you something that is
insane.
Although modern people won't see it as
such. It is insane to spend 42 years
under the spell of a group of people you
call leaders who stagnated a field.
In general, you have to ask the
question, why is no one allowed to say
what is going on with David Gross, Lenny
Suskin, Edward Whitten,
Andy Stinger?
Why are these people still our leading
physicists?
>> I mean, this program failed. It's not
the first failed program. We had a
program associated with um with Reggie
called the Reggie Calculus that was
supposed to do great things and didn't
work. There was a guy named Jeff Chu who
had a bootstrap program and the Smatrix
thing that didn't work. We've had lots
of ideas that don't work and it's part
of the game. And it's not a question of
these are bad people, but they they
failed scientifically.
We can't say that. We can't say that we
are slavishly devoted to making sure
that we don't offend our leaders and
we're going to insult everyone else and
literally we're just going to
professionally insult everyone who's
been saying for 42 years this is not
sensible. You saw what happened with
Eric is I sort of had to say you know
none of these ideas are remotely
plausible that you're exploring. It
wasn't personal. It wasn't mean. He sort
of said, "Yeah, I know that now,
but you can kind of tell at the
beginning none of this is going to
work."
>> And so, both in string theory and in
what he's doing, which is accepting that
craft exists and are retrieved and can
do miraculous things and the constraints
are he takes for himself. I'm not going
to challenge the standard model of
general relativity. What's the closest I
can get to science fiction from known
science fact?
And the answer is you're a million miles
away, buddy. There's no you're not even
you're not in the right zip code.
>> Is your sense that there is a vital core
that does have either geometric unity or
some frameworks that are closer to
ontological truth than general
relativity and quantum field theory? You
know,
>> you can't ask me because my my feeling
is I wouldn't have spent the same 42
years on geometric unity
>> if I wasn't pretty confident that this
is this is right. Right.
>> Okay. So, so then the question would be,
do you think that somebody else or some
other entity on the inside of all of
this? Because what's interesting is you
have a similar thing going on in UFO
world as what seemed to go on with
Epstein where you have this bizarre
telephone game of terms being you have
like in UFO world it's like extended
electronamics and all these like weird
frameworks that nobody knows how to
define and then you read those Epstein
emails and he's like boost your physics
he's like you know time is actually just
a function of the vibration of cesium
atoms and he's
infiltrating the math department at
Harvard and somehow has a lot of sway
with these people and is speaking like a
person who was maybe told some real
stuff.
>> This is this is the thing it's very hard
to convey because particularly academics
and PhDs
don't want to be conned like at all
costs. My feeling is this is an
extremely dumb way to go through life.
um you're going to be conned for sure.
Try to figure out who's saying something
interesting by listening. And in my
estimation, Epstein was saying
interesting things to me
that didn't originate from his mind.
>> It's like they've hired an actor to play
a hedge fund manager. I only met him
once. Uh it was probably for about an
hour or so. Um, but he was an absolutely
terrifying person to encounter.
It would be surprising to me if I was
alone in that I immediately had the
suspicion that I was looking at somebody
who had been constructed rather than
something that had organically arisen
within the financial community. It was
like somebody who' learned a phrase in a
foreign language and he was repeating it
as best he could. Like I don't I don't
think people really have a clear idea of
how crazy that interview he gives to
Bannon or the media training he was
doing. He gets like eight things wrong
in a row and people said, "Well, Eric,
you were wrong. He clearly is a much
better spoken, much more informed
person." So he founded the Santa Fe
Institute in 1990 to 93 when it was
founded in 1984 by other people.
>> So bizarre. Or this was around the time
that Murray Galman was naming quarks
from a poem when quirks were named many
years earlier.
>> Says he was a good Wall Street trader
because he had calculators. We had Texas
instruments back then. So,
>> okay. So, so this is what I saw with
like Bob Lazar. You know, Eric latched
on to the fact that Lazar is lying.
Okay. So, fine, he's lying. It doesn't
mean it's uninteresting.
Not only is it not uninteresting, but
it's I think it's simultaneously it's a
little strange to say I know that there
is a longterm legacy UFO reverse
engineering program than the one guy
that comes out where I think a lot of
his stuff checks to be honest and I
think you can easily character
assassinate the person by saying you
know he was involved in XYZ but a lot of
his the details check. My point is
assume that assume that he's uh
schizophrenic. Assume that he's uh got
delusions of grandeur. I I don't know.
I I'd never had the thought before that
the topological instanton sector of QCD
based on the pontriogen class could be
transgressed to a churn simon and churn
simon is as close to Einstein Hilbert.
Um, and I only had that because I was
just so sickened by what Lazar was
saying as if he's talking, I'm going to
explain the world to you kids and he
starts talking garbage.
>> When when did you hear that and and have
this idea about the theta sector and
then look at it?
>> It's an interesting question. Ro Joe
Rogan, who's, you know, a friend, wanted
me to sit down with Bob Lazar and, you
know, I sat down with Terrence Howard.
Um, and I have a great deal of fun with
Terrence and Terrence and I get on,
although sometimes he threatens me and I
hate that. Um, but Terrence, you know, I
I was I was praiseworthy in the one or
two areas where Terrence was doing
something really new. And in general, I
had to pour cold water on most
everything else, he said. And you know,
that's the price of being taken
seriously by somebody like me. And in
the case of Bob Lazar, Joe once said,
"Let's sit down." Now, I didn't I
wouldn't have done the Terrence episode
if I didn't have something to say which
Terrence which is positive, which is
Terrence found one remarkable thing. At
least he just did. So, with one
remarkable thing, I'm willing to do it.
Otherwise, it's a character
assassination.
I did not want to sit down with Bob
Lazar and do a character assassination.
Just characterologically, I don't like
going after human beings. I go after
institutions. Well, he would say he's
not at he would say these are frameworks
that were given to him, but he said that
he was at MIT, let's say, in the physics
department. So immediately the problem
is is that whenever you get to real
academic physics, the world shrinks to a
tiny number of people. And I don't think
that the outside world either
appreciates one of two things about
frontier physics. one, it's a tiny world
because it's so difficult
and two, how vertical it is in terms of
human ability.
>> Did he say he was in the physics
department though? I don't think he
>> I think he
>> I don't think so.
>> Joe Joe told me
>> there's a statement somewhere where he
said he had physics at MIT and Caltech
going back to the early 90s. that was
part of the early
>> I think it was just MIT but I think my
read on it is that MIT is university uh
affiliated research center UAR and they
do spooky and
>> well Draper
>> Mhm. For example, in Lincoln Labs,
>> right? MIT Lincoln Labs.
>> Yeah. Are are different sorts of
entities.
>> Exactly.
>> You know, so the issue is are you are
you at at MIT or are you really at
Draper or Lincoln?
>> Yeah. If you're talking to somebody from
MIT and Lincoln Labs, you're not talking
to MIT faculty.
>> I I don't know, but my sense is he was
put there to work on um
something defense related.
again.
>> So like more like functional, not high
level theoretical. But
>> so you ask you're asking me the
question, how did I come to think about
this thing from Bob Lazar?
>> Yeah. When did gravity age sounding like
>> so in order in order for me to sit down
with Bob Lazar according to my own rules
for I don't hunt human beings in general
unless they hunt me or unless it's
unless there's no other option. I don't
I hunt institutions that are failing. I
don't hunt people. I just don't like I
don't like the ethos. So, in order for
me to come on with Bob Lazar, I would
have to find one thing credible in what
he's saying.
So, I went over it. I tried to say, "Is
there any way of making this make
sense?" And originally, I couldn't do
it. I couldn't figure out this gravity
wave a gravity wave B because he and I
would get into it and it would be a very
short, brutal,
you know, it it would be Askin versus
Musvidel. I don't want to do that.
Um,
and then I found that and that was the
thing that was going to allow me to sit
down with Bob Lazar is
>> you could be saying something.
>> Problem is I don't think he'd be able to
hang with
>> Okay. But but it's it's a formal
possibility.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I also don't think he would try as an
author of the material to your point. He
would convey these are frameworks
provided to me elsewhere. He wouldn't
try to take technical ownership of
gravity A and gravity B. Well, the other
thing is is that I would say that even
mathematicians and physicists really get
this wrong. And the person who didn't
get it wrong bizarrely was Jeff Epstein,
which means that he's talking to
somebody.
>> In general, we we we do a bad job of
counting
the degree of a differential equation.
So if differential equations are how we
tell how the world develops,
the standard way of figuring out the
degree of a differential equation is
saying take the fields that are in it
and count the maximum number of
derivatives that are taken of those
fields before you get to the equations.
And that would say that the Einstein
field equations are second order and the
Maxwell's equations are second order.
There's a different thing you can do
which is you can say okay in fundamental
force law first spot the curvature
tensor and then tell me how many
derivatives I take of the curvature
tensor. In that case those are no longer
the same. Einstein's theory would be
zeroith order in that way of writing it
and Yang Mill's theory would be first
order because you take one degree in
Yang one differential in Yang Mills
theory you take zero differential you
just do linear algebra to the curvature
tensor in in general relativity
so
I don't think most people realize the
extent to which the churn Simons and
Einstein Hilbert are basically playing
very similar roles
In the two theories, one of them is
Romanian, one of them is Arismanian.
And
the key features they're both second
they're both zero with order in the
curvature when you take the Olrange
equation, which is very hard to do.
that thing that that property
means that there's a very strong tie
which is more broadly accepted between
churn Simons which currently lives only
in dimension three and in its most
strict sense and Einstein Hilbert which
can live in any dimension.
So
you know look there's a hope I just
don't think that most people think about
uh geometric physics in this way. Well,
interesting connection. Churn Simons is
named after who and who?
>> This is Churn and Jim Simons.
>> And Jim Simons. And that that takes us
back possibly to Renaissance
Technologies, who what has the largest
concentration of differential geometers
in the US.
>> Well, that's So, look, I I more or less
accused Jim Simons of this shortly
before he died.
Um, and I told him, I mean, it was very
collegial and very positive, but I said,
"You do realize that you have the
closest Lrangeian to Einstein Hilbert.
We don't usually talk about Simons
versus Einstein."
What did he say?
Well, then we have this completely
bizarre interchange. So, he wants me to
tell him more. So I explain that
essentially
in dimension three
your object which is actually a
transgression misinterpreted as an
action or a lrangeian
has the closest thing to the
characteristics of the Einstein Hilbert
action which is the integral of the
scalar curvature integrated over the
space-time manifold and I said
in dimension three you don't have any
vile curvature to get rid of the way
Einstein had to get rid of the vile
curvature and discard it as he filleted
the rest of the rem curvature tader
and you you you don't have the gauge um
benefit of your action you churn Simons
in the Einsteinian case but otherwise
they're extraordinarily similar
did did you know that they're both
inside of a parent theory and the parent
theory combines Einstein Hilbert and
Chern Simons
and new stuff.
And that's what geometric unity does.
Geometric unity gauges gravity
effectively
and
gives you contraction. So you're both
contracting and gauging, which you're
not supposed to be able to do under most
circumstances.
And I said, 'You going to have a role in
life that is much closer to Albert
Einstein's when this is all done. Not
that not that you're making an
Einsteinian discovery, but the thing
that will replace Einstein will also
explain the work that you did. And he
said, "This is unbelievably fascinating.
You have to come to State University of
Stonybrook to the Simon Center for
Geometry and Physics and spend a year
and teach us this."
>> Wow. So, I said, "Okay. Um, I'm moved,
but I I I would like nothing better." I
said, "You're just going to have to
understand that I have a family, and I
have a son who's finishing his last year
of of high school. So, I'm going to need
a little bit of help with the heavy
lifting of relocating the family for a
summer for for a year at a time when we
can't afford a lot of tumult.
And he looked at me and he said, "Okay,
well, do you have any idea where you get
the money?"
Isn't he worth$20 billion plus at that
time?
>> Yes.
>> That's crazy. And I I I looked at him.
I couldn't parse it.
>> It just doesn't add up.
>> It's so strange. Did you I mean, you
just didn't want to grabble at that
point and you kind of
>> Well, I'm not going to grable.
>> Yeah. And that that's so crazy.
>> Did you get the vibe that he was genu
genuinely hearing about this technical
detail for the first time?
>> This is the first of two meetings that
sound like this. The first time I had a
meeting with him, I spent three hours
um
with him going over a gauge theory of
modern economics. Now, he happens to be
married to an economist. He obviously
works in the markets and gauge theory
just so it's not thought to be
intimidating or or too cool for school
is really just differential calculus
done correctly.
And unfortunately we call it gauge
theory and we only teach people who are
very high up in pure mathematics or
theoretical physics. Nobody else learns
gauge theory. We should teach gauge
theory in high school. It's it's just
it's an indispensable way of looking at
the world and it's just differential
calculus done right. So in economic
theory
there was a thing called the marginal
revolution which Tyler Cowan borrowed
for the name of his blog
and that was the penetration of the
differential calculus into economics.
So what what I did uh together with Pia
Milani was to show that modern
neocclassical economics is a
self-evident gauge theory at multiple
levels.
And that was not taken well by the
Harvard economics department,
particularly by one man named Dale
Jorgensson, who was the chairman of the
department, and basically went nuts
trying to make sure that my wife was
unemployable.
And the reason that he did that is that
he was tasked by senators uh Bob Pacwood
and Daniel Patrick Moahan with
pretending there was a 1.1%
overstatement in the uh consumer price
index to transfer a trillion dollars
because all tax receipts and all social
security payments are indexed. So tax
brackets and
you can raise taxes and slash benefits
both at the same time by making a
technical adjustment in inflation.
You'll notice that many of us are
experiencing inflation that's not fully
reflected in our statistics. So there
was a crime going on which the Bosan
Commission was committing against the
American people by putting in a 1.1%
overstatement in the CPI by hand at the
same moment that Melani and myself were
showing
the economics is a gauge theory and
there's a completely different way of
looking at this and Jorgensson didn't
want any competition.
So anyway, I talked to Jim. Jim said,
"Look, this is amazing. Uh, I've never
thought about this, but you're right
about bundle theory and derivatives and
projection operators." I said, "Well,
you have to I have to ask you a
question. Your returns are so off the
chart.
You have to have some explanation for
why you're able to do this much of a
better job."
And I said, "Are you are you using this?
Your wife is an economist. You're a
differential geometer. you're in the
same situation I am. Did you get here
first? He took a drag on his cigarette.
There's a very long pause. He said,
"Eric, if you knew how he actually made
money, you'd be so disappointed."
What do you think he meant by that?
>> You could imagine. I have no idea. But
there's certainly, look, so far as I
know, I'm the first person
because I come from a math physics
background to say I'm not really
positive that this thing is just a hedge
fund.
>> The returns are too impressive. You
know, they're like North Korean returns.
And then the deer leader, you know,
ascended to the mountaintop and wrote
the seven most beautiful symphonies
before descending on a winged unicorn.
It's like in the early 2000s
I didn't believe the following four
funds. Bernie Maidoff,
Renaissance Technologies,
De Shaw, and Jeff Epstein.
>> Why De Shaw?
>> It was a strange thing that I knew
people who worked there. They were so
highly compartmentalized that they
basically had the sense of they had no
idea how the whole thing worked. And so
it had, as you know, there is a very
strange property of government secrecy,
which is the only thing people really
trust is compartmentalization and stove
piping.
The general belief is is that people
will always talk and you have to have
the people sharded with enough
granularity that nobody can put together
what's actually going on. Do you think
because I mean Brook Haven National Labs
is the site of Cosmatron which is the
largest particle accelerator in the US.
It is. Do you know that?
>> No, I didn't. I thought Firmeny Lab
would have been.
>> No, it's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So, so, so they they're doing, you know,
they have uh particle accelerator
that's, you know, pretty powerful up
there. They have Stonybrook which you
know uh is definitely punching above its
weight class when it comes to physics.
uh which has some interesting also
>> particularly mathematics
>> particularly mathematics also some
interesting architecture up there as
well that you've noted uh and then you
have this fund which seems to get 30%
year-over-year no matter what you know
up years down years you know it's just
always sort of you know performing at
the same clip and uh I guess my question
would be do you think this was sort of a
slush fund for secret science
I think it's not irresponsible. Look,
you know my thing about responsible
conspiracy theorizing, which is that you
go back in the history of actual
conspiracies and you say your new
thought about a conspiracy
should be within a standard deviation or
two of something that's known to exist.
So if you take Los Alamos as a good
example,
you have a
protected campus and compound.
You have top math physics talent.
You have duplicitous filings. For
example, they didn't want people to know
that plutonium and uranium were the two
main radioactive
elements that they were focused on. So
that I believe Harold Yuri may have been
sent to promote others. They didn't want
people realizing that it was as easy as
it as it turned out to be. So there was
a lot of disinformation scientifically
because you had to explain why you have
all of this focus on chain reactions and
then suddenly interest just stops.
Okay. So my claim is that if you believe
that Los Alamos exists and if you
believe that the RAD lab exists, the
radiation laboratory at MIT and you
believe a bunch of these things, it is
not hard. Oh, and then you believe like
dummy companies and shell companies like
Southern Air Transport or Air America,
you know, um
that's not the problem. The secret
squirrels in Washington DC don't want
smart Americans turning this into a
parlor game. So they've decided that,
okay, we're going to spread one idea,
which is that everybody who speculates
about the secret world is a loser.
There's only one reason to speculate
about the secret world is that you're
stupid.
>> Right?
And I really despise this.
>> So what I said was entirely responsible.
Uh, if you were trying to call the
National Security Agency, no such agency
back in the day,
that would be bad because I would say,
"Tell me where number theorists go who
don't get academic jobs, and let's map
the uh the zip codes." Oh, look, there's
this little cluster.
I don't know, Maryland or Delaware or
wherever it is, you know, and you'd find
Fort me. Okay. Well, there's a cluster.
Renaissance Technologies.
>> Yes. You know, so are you actually I'm
not telling you what's in it or not. I'm
telling you if if somebody told me
tomorrow there is a Manhattan 3.0 and
it's about gravity and UAPs and post
Einsteinian engineering.
Where is its brain trust? With 95%
confidence
I would tell you it's Renaissance
technologies.
On the other hand, if you asked, is
there such a program?
I don't know that I don't know that my
confidence would be so high. If there is
a secret program, I'm pretty sure it's
Renaissance Technologies.
>> Some percentage times 95% or something.
>> Well, that's the thing. It might be. It
might well not be. But you know, if you
asked me, um, hey, tell me what are
Fineman Beta uh, John Vonoyman doing at
a boarding school or at a boy school in
the New Mexico
uh, wilderness.
I'd say that's a really strange place to
find.
>> Yeah, it's an odd concentration of the
country's top physicist. Oh, well,
they're investing in secondary education
for young men because they have
self-image issues. Oh,
>> okay.
>> Exactly. Well, you also, you know,
you've noted that
or this isn't even something you've
noted. This is something, you know, in
the age of disclosure or and by the way,
this movie came out and you have DNI
level people. You have James Clapper,
you have
>> Brennan. Wait, wait, wait one second. I
just want to say this thing. Yeah, I
don't want to speculate against
Renaissance technologies if they're just
really good
traders. In other words, I'm not trying
to bring darkness to their door. But if
we're going to play this cat and mouse
game about what's true and what's real
and and and I'll just get very
very pointed about it.
Do not mess with your expert class,
right? The current strategy of dealing
with the expert class who's not read in
to whatever this is is to just pretend
that we're all incapable thinkers,
that we've got some personal problem
that we're working at.
I want to terminate that program with
extreme prejudice. You do not go after
your expert class because you were dumb
enough not to read them in
and then they figured out something of
what you were doing. Yeah. I don't know.
I don't know the specifics, but I'm not
I'm not stupid.
>> Well, the other issue with the way
things have gone, if we take Eric Davis
at face value on there being no
physicists in this vital secret core
program,
>> how did you react to that, Jesse? Let me
turn it around.
>> I It's crazy. I mean, it's it's um it's
outrageous. It's uh if that is the case,
it's uh it's extremely irresponsible and
it's not being run well at all. It makes
no sense. Why would you be operating
within a boundary that has been set
historically, you have, you know, every
century or two centuries, you have an
overturning of our physical model of
reality. And if you're telling me that
you are getting slag discs, you know,
whatever it is, material that you are
saying, you know, with 100% confidence
is not ours because it's been atomically
bonded or has isotope ratios with heavy
elements or any of the stuff that we're
hearing before Congress, a lot of these
guys saying. And then you were saying,
but we're operating within the bounds of
the constraints that we've set on
ourselves in this century.
>> No make sense. It makes no sense. It's
>> I'm following my contract. It's like
this is nonsense.
>> No. And and everybody repeats this as if
as if they're
I mean it's it's like if you gave the
excuse, well, no, because it's it's
Wednesday every week and everybody said
that. You sort of get a nerd to it, but
then you realize, yes, there's a
Wednesday of every week. That had
nothing to do with any. You have to be
highly disagreeable to basically say,
you know, Eric, what you just said, no,
no, no offense, makes no sense at all.
>> And what's so weird about it is I am
cynical. I think I think national
security runs the day on all this stuff.
And so once something makes sense from a
national security standpoint, it just
happens. Yeah.
>> And so if this were this grave
issue where you think you might be able
to do anything with any of this
material,
obviously you'd put your best and
brightest on it. Obviously the stove
piping of it would be an immediate
urgent issue that you would
>> or you put the best and the brightest on
top of the stove pipe system which is
what we did at Los Alamos. The white
badges.
Look, man, we have cowboys still.
>> Chasing physics. You're
>> you're Yeah,
you're you're castrating the people who
can do this work.
Well, that's that's the other, you know,
thing which I think is even worse than
the program being dysfunctional is you
have this narrative of in UFO world of,
you know, restricted data and all this
stuff getting relegated to, you know,
your Locked and Northrups and aerospace
contractors because if they retrieve a
thing, it's born secret under the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954. And this is, you
know, it's sort of DOE jurisdiction,
right?
Then you end up with uh, you know,
1980s, 1990s world where,
you know, not only is that the, you
know, whatever program is going on there
seems to be sort of uh, inert and
neutered and not particularly
impressive, all all the stuff we're
talking about right now.
But you end up in a world where
DOE security is so lax that Epstein can
move to, you know, Zoro Ranch with the
explicit intent of being near retired
Los Alamos physicists so he can gain.
>> You saw that clip I broke out.
>> I broke it out for a reason. Nobody
around me. They're going right through
that clip.
>> So why did I buy a ranch in New Mexico
1993? So that's gives you some sense. So
I would have funded it in 1990.
Uh Los Alamos, which was the high energy
lab up in New Mexico was losing all its
scientists.
>> Los Alamos was where Oenheimer where the
where the a lot of the the nuclear
weapons program, the bomb.
>> That's where Manhattan Project
>> Manhattan Project was as Los Alamos. And
you bought your property out in New
Mexico to be near that.
>> Yes. Because the scientists were going
to be they cut the funding for high
energy physics.
>> Look, I'm just going to be more
forthcoming. I have had a thankless job
of saying the string theorists are
horrible. Get them more money.
People wonder like it doesn't make any
sense. And now I'm going to spell it out
because Epstein said the thing that I
was trying to I was trying to be
Straussian about it and sort of speak so
that it's not evident.
He was listening.
At the end of the Cold War, you
over your physicists. Who who who
thought this up? How dumb are you? How
dumb are is the United States of
America? I just don't grasp it. On
October 30th, 1993, President Clinton
signed into law the death blow to the
superconducting super collider. You have
all of these deadly ninjas running
around. Tell me something. Who were the
first people the Israelis killed in Iran
when they went in?
>> Nuclear scientists.
>> Yeah. Physicists.
>> The Iranian Leon leader men's.
>> Yeah.
Now, I was not happy about that. You
know, my feeling is don't shoot us with
the piano players. But the Israelis made
a decision that the first thing you do
is kill your scientists.
The thing here is
if you look at the scientists, they look
like a joke. They're playing around with
toy models, lying about all the progress
they're making. And my claim is is that
until you pay these people, until you
stop making them afraid, until you until
you remove your hands from around their
throats with their grants and their
respectability,
you're not going to get any physics. So
the alternate interpretation of this and
I hate to say it is that some somebody
soft sunseted the world's most vital
intellectual community which is frontier
theoretical physicists and basically
these people are now kind of almost
buffoonish. The ex Epstein thing is a
giant tangle and I'm just going to say
more because I said it before these last
this last trunch.
Epste was running many different
programs. It wasn't even Epstein
probably running it. So, call the name
of the organization or the project or
whatever you want to call it, Jeffrey
Epstein. But that does not mean
that it was Jeffrey Epstein.
>> He was not a policy maker.
>> I don't know who he was. And and one of
the things about responsible conspiracy
theorizing is is that you don't
constantly answer the question, well, if
not X, then what? Why? No, I don't know.
Get used to I don't know. There's a lot
of I don't know in the story.
I don't think he was running the Jeffrey
Epstein
special access project or whatever it
was. If it was in the US government, it
would be a special access.
>> Clearly.
>> Yeah.
Somebody was running that thing. They
hired the wrong actor because he wasn't
that great of a friend.
Many different things were going through
it at the same time. So that plane of
his is not the Lolita Express. It's his
it's the plane that belonged to the
project and it fed different people for
different purposes. And that island is
not pedophile island. That island may
have had a tremendous amount of
pedophilia and horrific things going on.
But it's simply a container for whatever
was going on through this project.
So now you have the question about to
what extent were the scientists
implicated? To what extent was Jeffrey
Epstein doing one thing saying he was
doing another?
So let let me um
the Department of Energy has
counterintelligence
uh assets and directives. You're not
supposed to let a super rich guy
with no ostensible means of achieving
his fortune
buy an enormous ranch, a stones throw
from Los Alamos with the intention of
talking to high energy and weapons
physicists at the end of the cold war as
they lose their funding. Who blew this?
And and who blew the fact that in the
entire released information? This is the
first thing I I found. You know, I was
looking for this, which is the guy set
up listening posts.
He had another listening post called One
Brattle Square.
>> Where is that?
>> It's in in Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138.
>> So, let let me explain.
Let me spell this out for the kids at
home.
The analog of Los Alamos
is the Harvard math department.
The analog of nuclear and theoretical
physics and high energy physics
is number theory.
the benefits of knowing about this.
In New Mexico, it's weapons. In
Cambridge, Massachusetts, it might be
cryptography.
In New Mexico, you work with Murray
Gelman.
In Cambridge, Massachusetts, you work
with Martin Noak.
Your base of operations in New Mexico is
called Zoro Ranch.
in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. It's called
Office 610 at one Brattle Square.
I have no idea what we just did.
But whoever is supposed to be smart
enough to protect our crown jewels
has to recognize that just because the
the thinking is is that he was going to
make a a baby manufacturing facility at
Zoro Ranch and that he was doing
evolutionary dynamics at Harvard. I see
no reason to think that those aren't
cover stories. Well, what you just
articulated, I think only a specific
millu of people could even strategize
for like clearly Epstein himself wasn't
making that calculation.
>> Listen to what Bannon asked Epstein.
>> He said, "So, wait a minute. You bought
this ranch uh and you founded the Santa
Fe Institute?" Yeah. Around 1993.
Okay. Who founded the Santa Fe
Institute?
Not Jeffrey Epstein. What year was it
founded?
1984.
Then he says Murray Galman at the time
that he founded that Jeffrey Epste
founded the Santa Fe Institute founded
funded. I'm not sure he did give money
but he he's not behind the Santa Fe
Institute.
Says Murray Galman was working out the
word for quarks
around then. Quarks were named much much
earlier. He has no idea what he's
talking about.
>> Right. So, there's some telephone game
at play.
>> Yeah. And he says, you know, quirks had
a certain they had color. They had
flavor. They had a charm.
He says, "Nobody knows what these things
mean." Okay. Yes. Uh SU3 flavor was a
failed scheme uh for lumping the up,
down, and strange quirks into a
multiplet in complex three-dimensional
space. uh charm and and strange uh are
the names of second generation
um
quirks.
QCD we very well understand what a lot
of it means because in part it has this
property of asmtoic uh freedom so that
it becomes a free theory. It's one of
the it's the only theory we have that's
physical that extrapolates all the way
to the plank level.
This guy had no idea what he's talking
about.
He didn't have an idea what he was
talking about in currency trading
>> and and yet he knew to infiltrate
Harvard's math department or somebody
did
>> somebody that's what I'm saying
>> somebody behind him knew that clearly
because what you just articulated about
particle theory and number theory and
those two
>> but nobody's thinking number theory
because it's the emphasis is on the
program on evolutionary dynamics.
>> Martin Noak doesn't know anything about
number theory.
My claim is is that who who started the
program in evolutionary dynamics?
There's a different guy named Dick Gross
who was a number theorist
and Harvard references an imaginative
proposal by Benedict Gross and Jeffrey
Epstein.
Oh, so his initial contact was a number
theorist.
How interesting.
So strange. And then he's, you know,
he's funding Joyito and this uh,
you know, Bitcoin initiative.
Well, that's about crypto.
I I'm just saying, look, I don't know
what happened, but
I hate saying it this way. Are there no
smart people?
Like a hundred of my friends in
mathematics and physics should be on
this thing. And they've they've got
everyone scared
that to utter the words that are obvious
to any one of us. Like why why were all
of these super smart people hanging on
Jeffrey Epstein's every word?
So weird. Well, no, it's not weird.
Have you ever noticed how interesting
astrology becomes when it's explained to
you by a woman in a really low cut
dress?
Right? Suddenly it's like Virgo, I never
knew that. Wow. Oh, retrograde. That
makes everything make sense. When when
rich people are around has much the same
effect.
People blow smoke
up rich people's backsides all the time.
They just That is so insightful. That's
what all these people were doing. We
We're all starved for funding because
the Vanavar Bush arrangement has been
welched upon.
And so you've got all of these starving
ninjas who have skills that are pretty
advanced and dangerous
fawning over this crazy guy because he's
got an island in a jet.
Where do you think uh moving on to
higher ground, where do you think all
this UFO stuff goes? Because you have
more official disclosures at a very high
level going on than than ever. You have
rumors of Trump saying things. You hear
smatterings of people at least
peripheral to the admin pretty
interested in the issue. Donald Trump
Jr. interviewed Ross Colart last year,
you know, who's a UFO investigator
journalist.
>> Do you remember how Trump wanted to get
to the bottom of the Epstein files?
>> Yep.
>> You could forgive me for wondering what
happened to that zeal.
>> Do you think the same thing will apply
to secret?
>> This is what people don't understand
about Washington DC.
You have all sorts of people who don't
understand what Washington DC is or how
it works, who outside of the beltway
form beliefs about what they're going to
do once they get to Washington and they
change almost instantly.
Well,
it's like the drain the swamp guy turns
out met his wife through Epstein. You
know, it's this thing where I think in
that world, everyone got tagged. And so
maybe this is the same thing that goes
on with the UFO stuff. I don't know. But
like
>> there's something that cause you not to
want to reveal things,
>> right? Like it's somehow Trump gets
implicated in the UFO thing in some
weird way or
>> it's insanely lucrative to control
instead of to disclose.
>> Sure. It could be that. Yeah. Or maybe
the idea is that whatever this
information is,
assume it's the cover story for a weapon
system that is easy to create and
completely dangerous. Like I I keep
giving the example of a thing that
doesn't exist. The thing that doesn't
exist is a is an energy beam that can be
focused on the opposite side of the
planet at any particular latitude and
longitude that you give it. So you point
a a mythological gun into the ground in
a particular direction. You calculate
the effect of the earth on the on on the
beam that you and then you vaporize it.
So you have somebody's cell phone
coordinates. Suddenly that person is no
more. This is like a scalar weapon in
the ufology.
>> I'm not going to talk garbage stuff. I'm
just going to say imagine that this
existed,
>> right? So, you know that you can
transmit energy and hurt something and
you know that you can transmit nutrinos
through an entire planet and they'll go
through. You just don't know how to
recombine nutrinos on the other side.
Right? So, you know, it it's
theoretically I don't want to get into
it. I'm just trying to say imagine you
have some imagination. You say if I can
have a beam of nutrinos because I could
direct a charged particle and then I get
a decay and that gives me the momentum
in this particular direction. Now can I
refocus the nutrinos and get them to
convert on the other side a protect
particular is there any way to induce
that. That's a theoretical idea. I don't
see any way of doing it.
But what if you had such a weapon and it
was easy?
Now, you'd say, "Okay, are you telling
me that everyone on Earth can build
their own and just point it and vaporize
stuff,
right? That'd be terrifying. What if you
could unhook the uh the true vacuum of
the of the Higs field and get some kind
of vacuum decay?" Like, we don't know
whether hidden in physics,
our power is so vast that anybody who
sees what could happen keeps their mouth
shut.
We just don't know. Now, the one thing
that I believe, and again, you you guys
don't have to to believe it, but I
believe that if geometric unity is as
rich as I say it, it doesn't even have
to be correct. Just has to be rich.
It is inconceivable to me that there is
no interest in it
from the very people who funded
my education.
Office of Naval Research funded my
graduate education and the National
Science Foundation found it uh funded my
post doctoral position. I believe I was
put on a Department of Energy grant
which is very unusual for a
mathematician because Isidor Singer had
one. None of those people have any
interest whatsoever
in what I'm saying, which is fascinating
because even if it's wrong, I wouldn't
take the chance.
It's a studied level of disinterest that
doesn't really add up. Like I can tell
you lots of people whose theories are
almost certainly wrong. If I were the
government, I would want to keep tabs on
every last one of the competent people.
Doesn't matter whether they're wrong.
They're just dangerous. What What if
they're right?
Do you have a mental model on why this
stuff is coming out more now post 2017
this New York Times article? Well, the
things are breaking. There was a regime
that is breaking.
Like I was thinking about posting an
interview between Brian Green and Ed
Whitten that was done recently without
editorial
just to indicate how crazy the level of
string theorist madness is because it's
you know this phrase in Latin reips or
the thing speaks for itself. I don't
have to throw
pot shots at it.
The claim
that you know
string theory is about to figure it all
out is a joke in and of itself. So
imagine that that was the blocking
mechanism to keep people from doing you
know dangerous physics work as per Andre
and Horvitz.
It's expiring
and
I think that a lot of things are
happening right now because the old
order that was set up to manage all this
is two generations three generations out
from the architects. We had these genius
administrators like Vanavar Bush
and they set up these structures and the
structures worked pretty well but then
they didn't pass the knowledge of what
the structures were and how all these
tacid understandings and cryptic
arrangements worked so that the modern
people who've inherited the structures
basically don't even understand what
they're for.
You know, I talked to the provost of a
UC university, major research
university. He had no idea how the laws
had been changed to secretly benefit
universities for doing particular kinds
of work. So very often what happens is
is that the architects die and they they
leave a zombie. We seem to be in a
zombie era.
It's a little cargo cult. And then you
probably have people at the top freaking
out saying we need to get in front of
this and actually reorganize as uh our
multi-polar nuclear world gets more and
more hot.
>> But how how strange that you can't talk
to your own top people.
>> Yeah, it's weird. And as it pertains to
legacy program, the people at the top
panicking might also be disappearing
such that awareness of the problem could
be dying. Well, I'm explaining modern
UFO disclosure through this idea of, you
know, national security that we would we
would actually try to get this stuff
out. But yeah, it is this weird cloak
and dagger tongue-in-cheek sort of like
it's not uh overt at all. It's still
like like even you know you you
mentioned this sort of you know
theoretical directed energy weapon where
you could take anybody out remotely in
this perfectly precise way across the
world. I don't know if you caught this
part of the age of disclosure. Eric
Davis says in 1989 we should have
brought this up with him. 1989 uh the
Soviets uh engaged in a UFO crash
retrieval where they were able to derive
a directed energy weapon from this
particular craft.
And
that's a fascinating claim, right? Like
I I don't know what to make of that, you
know? How do you how do you know that? A
B.
So you are saying some of this stuff is
functional and it works its way into
weapons that we now know, you know, the
Department of War are scaling up
publicly. Uh and so like this whole idea
that we haven't made any progress is
actually kind of bogus, but it's being
used in these extremely dystopian ways.
Okay, but let me just ask,
how do we reconcile the fact that all
three of us have talked to so many
people,
which can't all be lying about what
they're saying. It's just I see no world
in which that's possible.
And nobody has any firsthand
incontrovertible stuff that would make
this a done deal. It it does weirdly
feel like the Epstein thing,
you know, how is it that there is
>> either a lot of people are implicated
that are publicly appearing around this
topic who are talking about it and
they're implicated but they don't want
to say they're implicated or the tip of
the iceberg doesn't look like the rest
of the iceberg and uh intentional
vagueness is being used with words like
crash retrieval and biologics and I
don't heir on that side of things given
how just how high up the people are
saying this stuff how overwhelming uh
the circumstantial evidence seems to be
overwhelming. It's overwhelming, but you
have to think probabilistically. And I,
you know, I always try to, you know, put
a healthy check on people who are
hardcore in UFO world who are sure about
discrete, you know, org charts in the
reverse engineering problem. Like, how
can you be sure of anything? You know, I
think you have to think
probabilistically about all this stuff.
>> This is not the most imaginative
solution, but another alternative to
reconcile that fact is that some of them
are lying and they are firsthand.
>> Well, that's what I was just saying.
because that's the red line. Maybe
>> I think you're telling stories that are
like more than one
>> about what could be going on so that we
don't
>> Yeah, let's do it.
>> So that we don't get committed to one.
>> Yeah,
>> excellent idea.
>> So I think the taking everything at face
value story is that there is this
decadesl long UFO crash retrieval and
reverse engineering program. It probably
existed prior to 1933, but it became
formally instantiated in the 33 Magenta
crash in Italy. This is all hypothetical
in the Magenta crash in Italy and then
that was transferred to the US under
FDR. You had Roswell in 47. You had
Trinity in 48. You have these sort of
sequential uh uh nuclear related UFO
crashes. you have the office of global
access under the CIA in the early 2000s
under Doug Wolf doing rapid response you
know retrievalss all over the world. Um
and this kind of convoluted org chart
structure where uh the locked and
northrups are the tip of the you kind of
the fingertips and uh you know uh CIA uh
you know um um science and technology
and and DOE and uh uh um you know DoD
are kind of at the top and so you you
could you could have that entire
narrative and just take that at face
value. I think another possibility
would be something like
uh aerial phenomena show up around
nuclear weapons and energy grids and
that is this clear pattern. It's global.
It's ubiquitous. It's exists in the US
but it also exists totally outside the
US. Um those aerial phenomena also seem
to be provoked by weird high energy
physics experiments. So, uh, lasers,
high energy lasers, um, you know, high
voltage experimentation, uh, particle
accelerators, things of that nature seem
to attract this weird aerial phenomena.
We don't really know what the aerial
phenomena is. We actually have uh some
prosaic, you know, human terrestrial
physics breakthroughs that have led to
novel propulsion modalities
from some of these kind of, you know,
topological physics anomalies that we
figured out midcentury. And we actually
do have propulsion based on them. So we
have, you know, real craft that seem
like they they fly like UFOs, but we're
running this tech protection thing by
intentionally conflating this aerial
phenomena that is very, you know,
bizarre and worthy of scientific
inquiry, but we just don't understand.
we were conflating that with just this,
you know, kind of more exotic black um
you know, uh uh not reverse engineering
program but uh uh craft program that is
that is human craft. So that would be
number two. And then number three is
like MC West territory or something
where it's like you know there is no
aerial phenomena around nuclear sites.
You know there are no anomalies there.
All the topological physics you know
Biffield Brown Ning Lee stuff is all BS.
Uh you know all you know conventional
physics models you know are going to run
the world for forever. And um you know
this is all a scop like it's literally
all like you know this crazy sort of you
know government lunacy thing. I don't
know would you guys say there's an
option four or five that you'd like to
add?
>> Hard to say. So one possibility is let's
imagine
let's imagine that
the atomic weapons were not developed
during war but during peace time inside
of a national lab.
There'd be a question about should we
reveal that this is possible,
right? There would be a huge debate as
to how to how to do work on this thing
um
and whether we should reveal it to the
world or should reserve it as a zero day
exploit.
>> So that would be option four,
>> I guess. New taxonomy.
Um,
>> is that option agnostic of where the
technology came from?
>> Well, so imagine for example that the
government figured out something in
physics that isn't the whole thing, but
it's powerful enough to do one or two
things that haven't been done before and
we wanted that in reserve. You can
imagine that the entire system would
say, would you please stop digging? We
want to keep the zero day exploit. It's
a matter of national security. Don't
make us reveal this.
>> That thing though would need to be
neatly adjacent to UFO crash retrievals.
They would need to intersect.
>> I don't want to talk about crash
retrievals until I've been to one.
>> But you know what I'm saying.
>> No, I don't know what a crashed
retrieval is.
>> What I'm saying is if that's being used
as passage material for some other
secret weapons program, the two probably
need to surface level look alike
somewhat for that to be an effective
cover. So that's that's the thing,
right? Like
so you remember when we attacked Iran,
we sent one squadron of B2 bombers in
one direction, one another. That was my
principle, an example of whenever we do
something cool, we do something fake. So
invasion of the operation overlord
D-Day and the beaches of Normandy was
cool. and Operation Bodyguard and
Fortitude were fake because we never
actually invaded Norway as we said we
were going to do. Um,
this could be the fake program to
something super cool.
>> Sure.
And
another aspect of this, if we're going
to just talk about crazy stupid
theories, is there's a strategy
with I think like malarial mosquitoes or
where you release a bunch of sterilized
males
into the world and sterilized males
effectively mate with the females but
leave no offspring.
And it's a way of controlling
mosquitoes. One possibility is that one
of the reasons we kicked all of the
Americans out of our physics programs
and science programs is that we wanted
to sterilize the world so that it didn't
catch up to us what we'd already done.
It's crazy idea, but why else should you
be, you know, having 27% of your PhDs
granted to Chinese nationals
in sensitive areas? Just doesn't make
any sense. So one possibility is that we
use string theory to sterilize India.
Let's say there are lots of Indian
string theorists and they're not making
any progress and they're extremely
arrogant about string theory.
You know these are crazy ideas. Uh
another possibility as somebody once
said to me or as somebody said to me
relatively recently,
you know, Eric, you don't need to rely
on the government. You can just go up
and look for yourself. The keep idea
being that you just need to get adjacent
to sensitive places and you'll see these
things everywhere.
>> Like this isn't that big of a deal.
They're always there.
>> Well, that's what I always find so
frustrating is for the, you know, the MC
West option, the Midwest scenario, the
super skeptic thing. It you spend like a
few days on this or literally like you
probably walk around one of these sites
or something. You go to the bar near one
of them. Something's going on. The
amount of smoke without fire is insane.
>> No, no, no. The the question is when you
see smoke at this level, the question is
what is the nature of the fire? There
are different fires,
>> but there is
>> or there's a smoke machine
>> or there's a smoke machine,
>> right? Like in other words,
>> or there's a really good spoofing
technology that we're all not aware of
or something.
>> Well, exactly. And and so, you know, my
feeling unfortunately is that the UFO
world is so polluted
that I just don't want to deal with it
at all.
>> Sure.
>> Um,
look, I believe we can leave.
And if you believe you can leave, you
have to imagine that you're being
visited.
So, it makes sense for me that I'm being
I can't understand why they keep
interacting with governments and nobody
can get good footage and we don't have
more.
But on the other hand, I would have to
say that the Epstein story was
pretty contained
and you were seen as a little kind of
crazy if you created a world view out of
the EPC like the the the the Pizzagate
people seemed ridiculous four or five
years ago.
>> No, no, no, they didn't.
Pizzagate
looked to me like an amalgam,
something real, something fake. Like for
example, the particular pizza parlor
and the guy who shot up the roof and all
that, you know, it was perfect. Don't be
like the guy who brings a gun into a
pizza parlor and shoots the roof
thinking that he's tracking pedophiles.
Also, what does it really mean
pedophiles? Like, do do we even think
about this? Is there such a clamoring to
do horrible things to children and that
these people are natural leaders of the
world? Well, now we're getting into
weird territory because
not only was pedophilia, which alone is
just disgusting discuss in the context
of Epstein,
but like weird like conditioning
rituals and things to like dissociate.
>> Weird at all. This is normal. You see,
it used to be
that uh homosexuality could play the
role
of pedophilia.
That two gay guys
would be so terrified of the having
their secret revealed
that they'd be willing to do almost
anything to avoid that revelation.
>> It's a stain that can be used
weaponized.
>> Well, but I would say utilized. Yeah.
Like hazing rituals,
>> it's easy to see them as brutal,
>> but that's not the function they serve.
It's like people don't understand what
the mob is. The mob is a contract
enforcement service for enterprises that
cannot use the courts. It's not violent
because it's recreationally violent and
it's not violent because these people
love violence. The idea is you have to
enforce a drug contract or a lone
sharking contract,
you know, or or a gambling some somebody
has to pay up.
>> So the notion would be pedophilia was
used as an enforcement system.
>> Pedophilia is trust,
>> right?
>> Nobody wants to say that, but that's
what I think it is.
>> You force people in that circle to
commit these crimes and then
>> how do I know how do I know I can trust
person A? It's always a question. Do we
come from the same ethnic group? That's
not trust. That's black. That's low
trust. No,
>> it's blackmail.
>> No,
it's consequence.
It's shared consequence.
>> And the key point is shared consequence
is a resource and ritual and all of
these things are used to direct that
resource.
What you're seeing in the Epstein world
is a high trust network.
I think it's Yeah, I was I guess it's an
enforcement network. It's like a, you
know, made man mafia system sort of
thing.
>> There's an email from the girlfriend
that alleges that he got in deeper than
he meant to. He was told to do this. He
didn't really mean any of it. It it just
came out in the latest trench. And it
speaks to this notion of an enforcement
campaign, an enforcement infrastructure.
>> But my my claim is is that in general,
most of us are unfamiliar
with how effective silent systems work.
If you think about the Velace papers and
you know how the the mob lost Omera and
the innovation of the Rico X and all
that kind of stuff
that was about I think that the rule was
is that you killed every informant
up to second cousins.
>> Jesus Christ.
>> Yeah. Like completely over the top and
insane. But that's how it worked.
And what was the what was the way that
these people referred to each other as
men of honor? Honor is the proxy system.
Of course, I'm going to honor you and
you're going to honor me because it's
too dangerous. It's too dangerous to
contemplate anything else. My guess is
is that right now there's no one that
can be hung out to dry because the first
person who gets hung out to dry, you saw
Bill Clinton saying, "Of course I'd love
to talk to Congress. Bring them on."
>> It's crazy.
>> Well, why is that? I don't think he
wants to talk to Congress. What I think
he wants to do is to say if you make me
the fall guy, think about think about
what you're saying.
>> It's a little shot across the bow.
>> I think it got a lot to say.
>> Trump's Trump's dump of these documents
was 3 million shots across the bow.
>> Yeah, I think so, too. Also, we should
note
this was probably the sanitized version
of these documents.
>> No, no, no. This isn't even the
sanitized version of the documents.
They've also set up the idea of okay
well these three million of the last
year are getting every but the other the
other three million. So then what what
is everybody going to do? They're going
to chant we want the other three
million. Okay fine fine we'll give you
the last of them and you just fell into
the trap.
>> Who said there were six million
documents?
>> Right. Tell me something.
If this guy ran a hedge fund that was a
multi-billion dollar currency trading
hedge fund. How many documents does a
hedge fund throw off just due to
compliance?
Right? Nobody's making any sense at all.
What you're seeing is a bunch of deeply
grooved people not thinking for
themselves
and they're they're happy to repeat the
heterodox version of the script that
they're handed. But it's not the
heterodox who are writing that.
>> It's really crazy. Well,
I'm officially demoralized and
depressed.
>> Don't do that, Jesse.
>> No. Well, I I appreciate I mean,
sometimes, you know, the the truth sucks
and uh you're a very incisive thinker
and you have a way of elucidating uh
things. Sometimes they're dark truths
and realities uh that others don't. So,
I I I really appreciate your brain and
um
>> but can we just finish it positively?
>> Yeah, let's do it. Yeah. How do we do
that? Well, if you don't mind, imagine
that we threw off this UFO yoke
>> and imagine that we just pushed on one
one particular place, which is Eric
Davis saying, "We have things that defy
the laws of physics and no physicists."
Imagine that the UFO community got
really smart instead of doing what it
always does and said, "We're going to
push on this one thing. How can you be
threatened
by craft that do not obey the laws of
physics
and make sure that the one type of
person who could possibly help with this
is to be found nowhere on the scene.
Right? So the opportunity
is is that if Tulsi Gabbard or JD Vance
or any one of these people sees this and
says I could change that tomorrow. I
could snap my fingers and get an
allocation of several million dollars
and I could get a few theoretical
physicists
would change absolutely everything
because one of the top theories has to
be that the reason you can't have a
theoretical physicist on this is that
there are no graph that defy the laws of
physics.
I hope they put that to the test because
Eric Davis is actually on record as part
of James Fox's last movie saying if you
give me blanket immunity, I will say
everything I know. And so I I I hope
that they are able to just, you know,
dress these people down. We could in a
in a in a better world that we're not
that far from push to have the one group
of people who could crack this case for
us, the detectives of our choice,
inserted. They were trained on our
dollars. They're supported on our
dollars. We have an arrangement with
them. It's basically like not calling
Delta Force when you've got a hostage
rescue situation.
>> Can I up the ante?
>> Yeah. an interdisciplinary symposium
where maybe the physicists are at the
top, they're hanging out, but you also
might have some other people. Don't
bring in the mushrooms and the
consciousness. Let's just do theoretical
physic physics and leave the rest for
Burning Man.
>> Fair enough. Well, to be continued.
That's a whole other debate we can have
or whatever, but I agree with the
Burning Man issue. Okay. Well, thank
you, Eric. This was awesome. Jack,
appreciate you. This is a lot of fun. I
think this is going to be a historic
episode. Thanks, Jets.
>> All right, cool.
Woo!